Homework “I can’t do it,” George groaned, and brought his forehead to rest on the block of lined paper in front of him. “Can’t do what?” I asked, looking up from peeling the carrots for the evening meal. I work from home, so I’m around when George gets in from school. He sits at the kitchen table, and I bring him some milk in his Manchester United mug and a plate with a teatime snack. This might be a slice of toast and honey with a peeled satsuma from which I have removed any stray threads of pith, or perhaps an apple, cored and cut into fine slices, with a few cubes of Cheddar. Quite often I’m not able to stop what I’m doing, and then I have to stay put. I call out from my desk to say hello when I hear the front door. He calls hello back and makes his way to the television. I’d rather catch up on work in the evening, but I don’t always have a choice. “Can’t do what?” I repeated. “I’m sure you can.” “You don’t know. Everybody says it’s really hard. And now I’ve got to give it in for tomorrow.” “Why do you do this? Why do you leave it to the last minute?” That’s another wonderful thing about George—you can tell him off and he won’t immediately go into orbit like some I could mention. He’s not a great one for flying off the handle. “It’s just so hard,” he moaned. “Now, come on,” I said, drying my hands and patting his nice strong shoulder. “Sit up and tell me what it is. You never know, I might be able to help.” “It’s Mr. Mottram,” he said, heaving himself up from his slump. “It’s English, so it should be all right, but he still wants to make it hard. We’ve got to do three sides of paper out of our own heads.” George is already taller than me and can lift me off the ground. One or two of his friends have had their growth spurts, so that I find myself deferring to the sudden height and booming voice of a boy whom last year I knew as a clear-skinned little pipsqueak. “What is it, this terrible task he’s set you?” “ ‘Write About an Event That Changed Your Life,’ ” George said with mournful sarcasm. “That’s what it is.” “Three pages is a lot.” Then a thought occurred to me. “You’ve had all the Easter holidays to do this, haven’t you? And you just didn’t let on about it. Now it’s your first week back and the chickens have come home to roost.” “I know,” he said, spreading his hands palms upward in front of him. “There’s no excuse.” “What have your friends done?” “Dylan’s written about when he went to a football match with his uncle, Crystal Palace versus Queens Park Rangers, and realized Crystal Palace was the team he wanted to follow for the rest of his life.” “I can’t see how he filled three sides of paper with that.” “He said it only took up one page even in big writing,” George said. “Now he’s got to, you know, pad it out. He’s going to describe all the Crystal Palace matches he’s been to since then, one at a time.” Serves Mr. Mottram right, I thought; I don’t know what he can be expecting from a class of thirteen-year-olds. They can’t know what a life-changing event is at their age. How can they know if what happened to them last year will have changed them in twenty years’ time? They won’t know till they get there. “I shouldn’t really help you,” I said. “I should leave you to get on with it. But if I do . . .” “Yes?” George said, propped up on his elbows, eying me with wary optimism. “If I help you, you’ve got to understand it’s only this once.” “Course,” he said with a beaming smile of relief. “You know I’m not like that, Mum.” “Yes.” I smiled back. “I do know. I trust you.” “ ’Cause you can,” he said, shrugging. “All right then, let’s think.” I sat down at the kitchen table and watched him assume a thoughtful expression. He furrowed his brow and chewed at the end of his Biro, then caught my eye and started to giggle. “I’d rather write about anything else in the world,” he complained. “Just think,” I said. “In fifty years’ time you might really want to write about the Event That Changed Your Life. In your old age you might find you’re desperate to set down your memories. Look at Grandma.” My mother had recently filled half a red Silvine exercise book with startlingly deadpan revelations. Her father had, at the age of fourteen, rejected a future as a farm laborer and walked down from Wakefield to London to find work; at first he slept wrapped in old newspaper on benches along the Embankment. That was before he went to fight in France. His father had been, among other things, a prizefighter at country fairs, more or less on the wrong side of the law all his life. “No,” George said, shaking his head firmly. “Boring.” “You might find it interesting when you get older,” I persisted. “I never knew that her mother, your great-grandmother, was found as a newborn baby wrapped in a flour sack on the church steps early one Sunday morning. That accounts for a lot.” I’m glad I wasn’t born at a time when you had to stay with the father of your children even if he broke your jaw. “Where was I born?” asked George, who knew perfectly well. “Willesden General,” I said. “Then I kept you beside me in a basket all the time for months and months. You were a lovely mild baby, like a dewdrop.” George smiled a gratified smile. “But I did cry sometimes,” he prompted. “Yes, but when you cried it just made me laugh,” I said. “You didn’t wail in a high-pitched way; no, it was more like the roar of a lion, and then only when you wanted milk. When you were hungry, you just roared!” He smirked at this and gave an illustrative growl. Following his birth, I’d had an urge to find out more about my family tree. After a while I gave up. It had branches and twigs and leaves in every corner of the British Isles. There were shipwrights and ropemakers in Northumberland, laborers in Lincolnshire, watchmen and peddlers and blacksmiths from Ipswich and Barnstaple and Carlisle. The further back I went, the further afield they spread out. It seemed pointless. George was from all over the place. “Life-changing events,” I said, returning to the business in hand. “Let’s think of some examples.” “If you win the lottery,” George suggested. “Or lose all your money,” I said. “Go bankrupt like Dad’s dad. Skip the country like my uncle Colin.” “Yes,” George said, pen poised, looking less hopeful. “What would change the life of a thirteen-year-old, though? That’s the question,” I reminded myself. “The death of a parent, certainly, but I don’t want you writing about that because it might bring bad luck.” “Jacob’s mother died,” George commented. “He doesn’t want to talk about it.” “No,” I said. “Poor Jacob. What did she die of?” “He says cancer. But Ranjit told me it wasn’t that, it was a bottle of tablets.” George shrugged. “I don’t know.” “No,” I said again. Jacob would get by till middle age, probably, when he would step onto this death as onto the tines of a garden fork, and the solid shaft of the handle would rear up and hit him in the face. “So, not death,” I said. “Because that’s the obvious one. No, it’ll have to be your parents’ divorce.” “But you’re not divorced.” “Well, we are in this story.” “He’ll think it’s really true,” George said, looking worried. “So?” I said. “It’ll fill three sides of paper. Let’s have the mum leaving the dad for a change, rather than the other way around. And you have to move from your family house to a flat, and your new bedroom is tiny and you have to share it with your little brother, who drives you mad.” “I haven’t got a little brother.” “Mr. Mottram doesn’t know that.” My siblings are scattered far and wide. Sharon runs a bed-and-breakfast up by Hadrian’s Wall. Valerie has an alpha-male job in the City, just like her husband, and they live in a big house in Wimbledon. Keith has had various irons in the fire over the years, but now he’s teaching English as a foreign language in China. Very modern Britain, our family. George looked at me warily. I could see that he was torn between his natural fantasy-hating honesty and a desire to have someone else do his homework. “Is it allowed?” he asked. “Yes,” I said. “It’s English, isn’t it? Don’t they call this bit creative writing? Well, you’re just being creative.” “Ha,” George said. “Inventive,” I added. “It’s a good thing. Listen, you want to watch the match tonight, don’t you? Chelsea versus Liverpool, isn’t it?” “Yes.” “In which case you’d better get this homework finished before dinner. Which I’m doing specially for seven o’clock, because I know you like all that warmup chat beforehand.” “Thanks, Mum.” I couldn’t resist giving him a hug, the roaring dewdrop baby who had grown into this broad-shouldered boy. Last week I’d been making flapjacks while he stood by to lick the spoon, and I mentioned that I’d always liked the picture of the lion on the Golden Syrup tin. “Out of the strong came forth sweetness,” he read aloud, peering at the green-and-gold picture. “That’s what’s written underneath it.” I never knew that before. “Have you got your pen ready? I’m not going to write this for you, you know; I’m only going to give you ideas.” “O.K.,” he agreed. He was in no position to object. “Your parents had been having arguments for years. You remember the slammed doors and bitter words from when you were little,” I began. George started to write. “You tried to blot it out, but you couldn’t help feeling upset inside. It got into your dreams. You could put a bad dream in, George; that would take up a few lines.” “What about?” “Oh, an earthquake perhaps,” I said. “I was always dreaming about earthquakes and floods and fires when I was your age. Or you’re in a house and it falls down around you and you try to run, but the ground opens up in front of you.” “To pad it out a bit?” George said. “If you like. Then there’s the divorce, which is a relief after all the fighting.” “Why did Auntie Sharon get divorced?” “I don’t know,” I said, tutting. “They seemed quite happy to start with, but then Mike turned into a bear with a sore head when she had the twins. Some people find domestic life more of a trial than others.” “Dad loves domestic,” George commented. “On Fridays when he gets back home, he says, ‘Ah, domestic bliss.’ ” “Yes, well,” I said with a stunted smile. “Auntie Sharon lives in the nicest place, and she’s got three dogs, but Auntie Valerie’s got the best job,” George said. “Her family goes on the best holidays, and they’ve got an Audi and a BMW. I want a BMW when I get a job. That’s the first thing I’ll buy.” “Oh, really.” I sniffed. “The only time they all manage to get together as a family is when they go on some expensive safari thousands of miles away.” “Just because they’ve got good jobs,” George said, “you shouldn’t be jealous.” “I’m not jealous!” I declared. “How could I be jealous of anyone working those ridiculous hours? They’ve sold their souls.” “Oh, Mum,” George said reprovingly. “Anyway, after the divorce you have to move house and change schools.” “Why?” “Because you do. Money. Jobs. And you go and live with your father and your little brother, and you visit your mother at weekends. You might even ask if you can go and live with your grandma for a while.” “Why?” George said again, large-eyed, even more down in the mouth. “For a break,” I said absently. Grow up in certain homes and it’s like being out on a cold, choppy sea in an open dinghy with two angry fishermen in charge. Or sometimes just a single fisherman, who is, what’s more, drunk. Whereas with a grandparent life for a child can be less dangerous, more like being afloat on a reservoir. “What happens next?” “The mum wants a new start. She wants to see the world! Everybody else has.” “But, Mum, Mr. Mottram will think it’s really you.” “When you think about it,” I mused, “it’s none of Mr. Mottram’s business. He should only be interested in it as a piece of writing. Is it a good piece of writing? Is it convincing?” “What if he asks me?” George muttered. “He won’t. He’s an English teacher, isn’t he, not a psychotherapist. So if he did ask you he’d just be being nosy.” George shrugged helplessly. When I went to live with my grandmother for a while, she had enough to eat but not quite enough to keep warm. She was over seventy, but she had kept on one of her old cleaning jobs—Mrs. Blincoe—mainly for the sake of being in a house with central heating. I’d go along to help with the floors; then, while she polished and dusted, I’d puzzle over the Latin homework that held my enfranchisement. She never considered this work demeaning, and in fact looked down on Mrs. Blincoe as an unfeminine woman, a cold woman who had made her husband lonely and who did not grieve when he died but said, “Now I’m free to do what I want to do,” and went off round the world on various package holidays. The cheerful bearded sailor on her packet of Players was as close as my grandmother ever got to the sea. She cooked with a cigarette in her mouth; quite often ash would fall into the gravy, and she would stir it in as extra seasoning. “Listen, you’re doing ‘A Midsummer Night’s Dream,’ aren’t you?” I continued. “Do you think Shakespeare got asked whether he’d ever grown donkey’s ears?” George smiled briefly. “Right. So you see your mum at weekends, and one weekend she tells you she wants to go to Peru and asks if she can borrow your Duke of Edinburgh rucksack. She promises she’ll send you postcards. It’s just something she’s got to do to move forward in her life.” George scribbled away, not happy with where the story line was going but incapable of coming up with an alternative. I felt powerful, like a magician pulling rabbits out of a hat. “I still don’t think it’s allowed,” he said. “Of course it’s allowed,” I said. “You’ve got to have things happening, see, or it’s not a story. Think of the films you like. Car chases. Explosions. Sharks.” “Can the mum be swimming in the China Sea and then a shark comes up?” George asked hopefully, trying to enter into the creative spirit. “Probably not,” I said dryly. “That might be a step too far for Mr. Mottram, don’t you think?” “But you said—” “Yes, but we’ve got to make it believable. It’s like a game, isn’t it? He shouldn’t be able to tell what’s real and what’s made up.” “I’d like to go to Japan,” George said. “They’ve got the new Nintendo Wii there, and I could get it way ahead of everybody else. Plus, you don’t have to have injections to go there.” “Next,” I said. “I think the dad meets someone else, don’t you? At first he’s just been going to work and coming back and cooking nasty teas. You’ve had to help—buying a loaf of bread on the way home from school, that sort of thing, and doing the washing up without being asked.” “Isn’t there a dishwasher in the new place?” “It’s broken. And nobody gets round to finding someone to mend it, and, anyway, you’re all out all day. Maybe your little brother can be in because he’s ill, though. Chicken pox.” “My little brother can’t be left on his own,” George objected. “If he’s seven or eight or something. That’s against the law.” “O.K., you’ve got an older sister instead.” “She can cook,” he said with satisfaction. The meals were worrying him. “No, she can’t,” I said. “She just eats crisps and bananas. No, it’s the dad that has to do it after work, unless you start teaching yourself from a cookbook.” George looked up from his pad suspiciously. I was always trying to get him interested in cutting up broccoli florets or making omelettes. “The dad should do it,” he protested. “I’m a kid, it’s not my job. Kids should be looked after by their parents.” “You’re thirteen, George!” I said. I was about to bring up the walk from Wakefield, but then I stopped myself. “Oh well, it’s your story. The dad does the cooking, but it’s always pasta.” “Cool,” George said, grinning. “And the pasta is always soggy.” I scowled. “Feel free to carry on.” “No, no,” he said. “After you.” “He’s been trying to cook, but he’s no good at it. Then he meets, let’s see, Miranda. You know she’s not nasty or anything, but she’s got nothing to do with you. And he starts including her in on everything.” “How?” “She’s always there when he’s around, watching television with you, in between you on the sofa.” “What, even when football’s on?” “Yes. She pretends to like it. She says she’s a Chelsea supporter.” “Chelsea,” George said grimly. “One weekend your mum tells you she’s off backpacking in three days’ time, first stop Thailand,” I continued. “We need to wind this up, George. She promises she’ll send postcards. You could have them arriving a bit later on with little messages—you know, ate fried tortoise, went bungee jumping, that sort of thing. You could stick them on the fridge so Miranda can see them.” “Maybe she can cook.” “Not likely,” I said. “She’s not interested in food. She doesn’t see why she should, anyway. Why should she? Then it’s the last straw. You’ve just had another of these postcards; the mum’s got as far as Australia. And your dad announces that your holiday this year is camping in Wales—there’s no money for anything else. He can stretch to walking boots for you and your sister, but that’s it.” “Wales,” George said, with leaden emphasis. “I think you can leave it somewhere there,” I said airily. “It’s April now—people are planning their summer holidays. Mr. Mottram will buy that.” “But how do I finish it off?” “You don’t have to really; you don’t have to solve everything. It’s not a police procedural. But you’re right, you do need something.” “Yes.” “I know,” I said. “Pull in your love of football. All these months since the divorce you’ve turned to football to help you forget. This year you’ve been following the Champions’ League with a passion. Is your team doing all right in it? Manchester United?” “Last night’s game was amazing, Mum,” George said earnestly. “Rooney scored this goal in the ninety-first minute, and I couldn’t believe it.” He shook his head in wonder. “It was unbelievable.” “Was he happy?” “He did this full-body dive all the way along the grass, then he lay with his head on his arms, and they all bundled in on top of him. We were playing at home, though—it might not be so good in the away match.” “You can put all that in, just like you’ve told it to me.” I’d been struck by a thought. “Now, what does the Man U crowd chant when it wants the team to win? You know, like Tottenham’s is ‘Come on, you Spu-urs.’ ” “united! united!” George chanted automatically. “There you are,” I said. “That’s your last paragraph. You explain how football has got you through your parents’ divorce. You describe Rooney’s great goal in the ninety-first minute. How your team means so much to you. Then you write how you joined in with the TV crowd shouting, “united! united!” And you round it off with the words ‘Ironic, really.’ ” “Ha,” said George, who wasn’t slow on the uptake, even if the pilot light of his imagination had yet to flare into action. He smiled reluctantly and started to write this down. I looked at his fair head bent over the writing pad. The time for advice was almost gone. Beware heat without warmth. When a man loses his temper, people say, That’s the Irish in him, or the Scottish, or the Viking. Don’t listen to them. Dirty players or terriers are what they call footballers with that anger-stoked edge, but strength without sweetness is no use at all. “Ironic because?” I asked. “The mum and the dad. They’re not united.” “There you are.” I glanced at the kitchen clock. “I’ve got to get on,” I said. “I’ve got my own work to do.” “That’s all right,” he said, smiling up at me. “You go. I can do it now.” 
Wildwood It’s never the changes we want that change everything. This is how it all starts: with your mother calling you into the bathroom. You will remember what you were doing at that precise moment for the rest of your life: you were reading “Watership Down” and the bucks and their does were making the dash for the raft and you didn’t want to stop reading, the book had to go back to your brother tomorrow, but then she called you again, louder, her I’m-not-fucking-around voice, and you mumbled irritably, Sí, señora. She is standing in front of the medicine-cabinet mirror, naked from the waist up, her bra slung about her hips like a torn sail, the scar on her back as vast and inconsolable as the sea. You want to return to your book, to pretend you didn’t hear her, but it is too late. Her eyes meet yours, the same big smoky eyes you will have in the future. Ven acá, she commands. She is frowning at something on one of her breasts. Your mother’s breasts are immensities. One of the wonders of the world. The only ones you’ve seen that are bigger are in nudie magazines or on really fat ladies. They’re forty-two triple Ds and the aureoles are as big as saucers and black as pitch and at their edges are fierce hairs that sometimes she plucks and sometimes she doesn’t. These breasts have always embarrassed you and when you walk in public with her you are conscious of them. After her face and her hair, her tetas are what she is most proud of. Your father could never get enough of them, she always brags. But given the fact that he ran off on her after their third year of marriage it seemed in the end that he could. You dread conversations with your mother. These one-sided dressing-downs. You figure that she has called you in to give you another earful about your diet. Your mom’s convinced that if you only eat more plátanos you will suddenly acquire her extraordinary train-wrecking secondary sex characteristics. Even at that age you are nothing if not your mother’s daughter. You are twelve years old and already as tall as her, a long slender-necked ibis of a girl. You have her straight hair, which makes you look more Hindu than Dominican, and a behind that the boys haven’t been able to stop talking about since the fifth grade and whose appeal you do not yet understand. You have her complexion, too, which means you are dark as night. But for all your similarities the tides of inheritance have yet to reach your chest. You have only the slightest hint of breasts: from most angles you’re flat as a board and you’re thinking she’s going to order you to stop wearing bras again because they’re suffocating your potential breasts, discouraging them from popping out. You’re ready to argue with her to the death, because you’re as possessive of your bras as you are of the pads you now buy yourself. But no, she doesn’t say a word about eating more plátanos. Instead, she takes your right hand and guides you. Your mom is rough in all things, but this time she is gentle. You did not think her capable of it. Do you feel that? she asks in her too familiar raspy voice. At first all you feel is the density of the tissue and the heat of her, like a bread that never stopped rising. She kneads your fingers into her. You’re as close as you’ve ever been and your breathing is what you hear. Don’t you feel that? She turns toward you. Coño, muchacha, stop looking at me and feel. So you close your eyes and your fingers are pushing down and you’re thinking of Helen Keller and how when you were little you wanted to be her except more nunnish and then suddenly you do feel something. A knot just beneath her skin, tight and secretive as a plot. And at that moment, for reasons you will never quite understand, you are overcome by the feeling, the premonition, that something in your life is about to change. You become light-headed and you can feel a throbbing in your blood, a rhythm, a drum. Bright lights zoom through you like photon torpedoes, like comets. You don’t know how or why you know this thing, but that you know it cannot be doubted. It is exhilarating. For as long as you’ve been alive you’ve had bruja ways; even your mother will not begrudge you that much. Hija de Liborio, she called you after you picked your tía’s winning numbers for her and when you guessed correctly how old to the day she’d been when she left home for the U.S. (a fact she’d never told anyone). You assumed Liborio was a relative. That was before Santo Domingo, before you knew about the Great Power of God. I feel it, you say, too loudly. Lo siento. And like that, everything changes. Before the winter is out the doctors remove that breast you were kneading and its partner, along with the auxiliary lymph nodes. Because of the operations, your mother will have trouble lifting her arms over her head for the rest of her life. Her hair begins to fall out and one day she pulls it all out herself and puts it in a plastic bag. You change, too. Not right away, but it happens. And it’s in that bathroom that it all begins. That you begin. A punk chick. That’s what I became. A Siouxsie and the Banshees-loving punk chick. The Puerto Rican kids on the block couldn’t stop laughing when they saw my hair; they called me Blacula. And the morenos, they didn’t know what to say; they just called me devil-bitch. Yo, devil-bitch, yo, yo! My tía Rubelka thought it was some kind of mental illness. Hija, she said while frying pastelitos, maybe you need help. But my mother was the worst. It’s the last straw, she screamed. The. Last. Straw. But it always was with her. Mornings when I came downstairs she’d be in the kitchen making her coffee in la greca and listening to Radio WADO and when she saw me and my hair she’d get mad all over again, as if during the night she’d forgotten who I was. My mother was one of the tallest women in Paterson and her anger was just as tall. It pincered you in its long arms, and if you showed any weakness you were finished. Que muchacha tan fea, she said in disgust, splashing the rest of her coffee in the sink. Fea had become my name. It was nothing new, to tell the truth. She’d been saying stuff like that all our lives. My mother would never win any awards, believe me. You could call her an absentee parent: if she wasn’t at work she was sleeping and when she wasn’t sleeping all she did was scream and hit. As kids, me and Oscar were more scared of our mother than we were of the dark or el cuco. She would hit us anywhere, in front of anyone, always free with the chanclas and the correa, but now with her cancer there wasn’t much she could do anymore. The last time she tried to whale on me it was because of my hair, but instead of cringing or running I punched her hand. It was a reflex more than anything, but once it happened I knew I couldn’t take it back, not ever, and so I just kept my fist clenched, waiting for whatever came next, for her to attack me with her teeth like she had this one lady in the Pathmark. But she just stood there shaking, in her stupid wig and her stupid bata, with two huge foam prostheses in her bra, the smell of burning wig all around us. I almost felt sorry for her. This is how you treat your mother? she cried. And if I could I would have broken the entire length of my life across her face, but instead I screamed back, And this is how you treat your daughter? Things had been bad between us all year. How could they not have been? She was my Old World Dominican mother who had come alone to the United States and I was her only daughter, the one she had raised up herself with the help of nobody, which meant it was her duty to keep me crushed under her heel. I was fourteen and desperate for my own patch of world that had nothing to do with her. I wanted the life that I used to see when I watched “Big Blue Marble” as a kid, the life that drove me to make pen pals and to borrow atlases from school. The life that existed beyond Paterson, beyond my family, beyond Spanish. And as soon as she became sick I saw my chance and I’m not going to pretend or apologize; I saw my chance and eventually I took it. If you didn’t grow up like I did then you don’t know and if you don’t know it’s probably better you don’t judge. You don’t know the hold our mothers have on us, even the ones that are never around—especially the ones that are never around. What it’s like to be the perfect Dominican daughter, which is just a nice way of saying a perfect Dominican slave. You don’t know what it’s like to grow up with a mother who never said anything that wasn’t negative, who was always suspicious, always tearing you down and splitting your dreams straight down the seams. On TV and in books mothers talk to daughters, about life, about themselves, but on Main Street in Paterson mothers say not a word unless it’s to hurt you. When my first pen pal, Tomoko, stopped writing me after three letters my mother was the one who said, You think someone’s going to lose life writing to you? Of course I cried; I was eight and I had already planned that Tomoko and her family would adopt me. My mother, of course, saw clean into the marrow of those dreams and laughed. I wouldn’t write to you, either, she said. She was that kind of mother: who makes you doubt yourself, who would wipe you out if you let her. But I’m not going to pretend, either. For a long time I let her say what she wanted about me and, what was worse, for a long time I believed her. I was a fea, I was a worthless, I was an idiota. From ages two to thirteen I believed her and because I believed her I was the perfect hija. I was the one cooking, cleaning, doing the wash, buying groceries, writing letters to the bank to explain why a house payment was going to be late, translating. I had the best grades in my class. I never caused trouble, even when the morenas used to come after me with scissors because of my straight straight hair. I stayed at home and made sure my little brother Oscar was fed and everything ran right while she was at work. I raised him and I raised me. I was the one. You’re my hija, she said, that’s what you’re supposed to be doing. When that thing happened to me when I was eight and I finally told her what our neighbor had done she told me to shut my mouth and stop crying and I did exactly that, I shut my mouth and clenched my legs and my mind and within a year I couldn’t have told you what he looked like or even his name. All you do is complain, she said to me, but you have no idea what life really is. Sí, señora. When she told me that I could go on my sixth-grade sleepaway to Bear Mountain and I bought a backpack with my own paper-route money and wrote Bobby Santos notes because he was promising to break into my cabin and kiss me in front of everyone I believed her and when on the morning of the trip she announced that I wasn’t going and I said, But you promised, and she said, Muchacha del diablo, I promised you nothing, I didn’t throw my backpack at her or pull out my hair, and when it was Laura Saenz who ended up kissing Bobby Santos, not me, I didn’t say anything, either. I just lay in my room with stupid Bear-Bear and sang under my breath, imagining where I would run away to when I grew up. To Japan maybe, where I would track down Tomoko, or to Austria, where my singing would inspire a remake of “The Sound of Music.” All my favorite books from that period were about runaways—“Watership Down,” “The Incredible Journey,” “My Side of the Mountain”—and when Bon Jovi’s “Runaway” came out I imagined it was me they were singing about. No one had any idea. I was the tallest, dorkiest girl in school, the one who dressed up as Wonder Woman every Halloween, the one who never said a word. People saw me in my glasses and my hand-me-down clothes and could not have imagined what I was capable of. And then when I was twelve I got that feeling, the scary witchy one, and before I knew it my mother was sick and the wildness that had been in me all along, that I had tried to tamp down with chores and with homework and with promises that once I reached college I would be able to do whatever I pleased, burst out. I couldn’t help it. I tried to keep it down, but it just flooded through all my quiet spaces. It was a message more than a feeling, a message that tolled like a bell: Change, change, change. It didn’t happen overnight. Yes the wildness was in me, yes it kept my heart beating fast all the long day, yes it danced around me while I walked down the street, yes it let me look boys straight in the face when they stared at me, yes it turned my laugh from a cough into a wild fever, but I was still scared. How could I not be? I was my mother’s daughter. Her hold on me was stronger than love. And then one day I was walking home with Karen Cepeda, who at that time was my friend. Karen did the goth thing really well; she had spiky Robert Smith hair and wore all black and had the skin color of a ghost. Walking with her in Paterson was like walking with the bearded lady. Everybody would stare and it was the scariest thing and that was, I guess, why I did it. We were walking down Main and being glared at by everybody and out of nowhere I said, Karen, I want you to cut my hair. As soon as I said it I knew. The feeling in my blood, the rattle, came over me again. Karen raised her eyebrow: What about your mother? You see, it wasn’t just me—everybody was scared of Belicia de León. Fuck her, I said. Karen looked at me like I was being stupid—I never cursed, but that was something else that was about to change. The next day we locked ourselves in her bathroom while downstairs her father and uncles were bellowing at some soccer game. Well, how do you want it? she asked. I looked at the girl in the mirror for a long time. All I knew was that I didn’t want to see her ever again. I put the clippers in Karen’s hand, turned them on, and guided her hand until it was all gone. So now you’re punk? Karen asked uncertainly. Yes, I said. The next day my mother threw the wig at me. You’re going to wear this. You’re going to wear it every day. And if I see you without it on I’m going to kill you! I didn’t say a word. I held the wig over the burner. Don’t do it, she said as the burner clicked. Don’t you dare— It went up in a flash, like gasoline, like a stupid hope, and if I hadn’t thrown it in the sink it would have taken my hand. The smell was horrible, like all the chemicals from all the factories in Elizabeth. That was when she slapped at me, when I struck her hand and she snatched it back, like I was the fire. Of course everyone thought I was the worst daughter ever. My tía and our neighbors kept saying, Hija, she’s your mother, she’s dying, but I wouldn’t listen. When I hit her hand, a door opened. And I wasn’t about to turn my back on it. But God how we fought! Sick or not, dying or not, my mother wasn’t going to go down easy. She wasn’t una pendeja. I’d seen her slap grown men, push white police officers onto their asses, curse a whole group of bochin-cheras. She had raised me and my brother by herself, she had worked three jobs until she could buy this house we lived in, she had survived being abandoned by my father, she had come from Santo Domingo all by herself, and as a young girl she’d been beaten, set on fire, left for dead. (This last part she didn’t tell me, my tía Rubelka did, in a whisper, Your mother almost died, she almost died, and when I asked my mother about it at dinner she took my dinner and gave it to my brother.) That was my mother and there was no way she was going to let me go without killing me first. Figurín de mierda, she called me. You think you’re someone, but you ain’t nada. She dug hard, looking for my seams, wanting me to tear like always, but I didn’t, I wasn’t going to. It was that feeling I had that my life was waiting for me on the other side that made me fearless. When she threw away my Smiths and Sisters of Mercy posters—aquí yo no quiero maricones—I bought replacements. When she threatened to rip up my new clothes I started keeping them in my locker and at Karen’s house. When she told me that I had to quit my job at the Greek diner I explained to my boss that my mother was starting to lose it because of her chemo, and when she called to say I couldn’t work there anymore he just handed me the phone and stared out at his customers in embarrassment. When she changed the locks on me—I had started staying out late, going to the Limelight because even though I was fourteen I looked twenty-five—I would knock on Oscar’s window and he would let me in, scared because the next day my mother would run around the house screaming, Who the hell let that hija de la gran puta in the house? Who? Who? And Oscar would be at the breakfast table stammering, I don’t know, Mami, I don’t. Her rage filled the house, like flat stale smoke. It got into everything, into our hair and our food, like the fallout they told us about in school that would one day drift down soft as snow. My brother didn’t know what to do. He stayed in his room, though sometimes he would lamely try to ask me what was going on. Nothing. You can tell me, Lola, he said, and I could only laugh. You need to lose weight, I told him. In those final weeks I knew better than to go near my mother. Most of the time she just looked at me with the stink eye, but sometimes without warning she would grab me by my throat and hang on until I pried her fingers off. She didn’t bother talking to me unless it was to make death threats: When you grow up you’ll meet me in a dark alley when you least expect it and then I’ll kill you and nobody will know I did it! Gloating as she said this. You’re crazy, I told her. You don’t call me crazy, she said, and then she sat down panting. It was bad, but no one expected what came next. So obvious when you think about it. All my life I’d been swearing that one day I would just disappear. And one day I did. I ran off, dique, because of a boy. What can I really tell you about him? He was like all boys: beautiful and callow and, like an insect, he couldn’t sit still. Un blanquito with long hairy legs who I met one night at the Limelight. His name was Aldo. He was nineteen and lived down at the Jersey Shore with his seventy-four-year-old father. In the back of his Oldsmobile on University I pulled my leather skirt up and my fishnet stockings down and the smell of me was everywhere. I didn’t let him go all the way, but still. The spring of my sophomore year we wrote and called each other at least once a day. I even drove down with Karen to visit him in Wildwood (she had a license, I didn’t). He lived and worked near the boardwalk, one of three guys who operated the bumper cars, the only one without tattoos. You should stay, he told me that night while Karen walked ahead of us on the beach. Where would I live? I asked, and he smiled. With me. Don’t lie, I said, but he looked out at the surf. I want you to come, he said seriously. He asked me three times. I counted, I know. That summer my brother announced that he was going to dedicate his life to designing role-playing games, and my mother was trying to keep a second job for the first time since her operation. It wasn’t working out. She was coming home exhausted, and since I wasn’t helping, nothing around the house was getting done. Some weekends my tía Rubelka would help out with the cooking and cleaning and would lecture us both, but she had her own family to look after, so most of the time we were on our own. Come, he said on the phone. And then in August Karen left for Slippery Rock. She had graduated from high school a year early. If I don’t see Paterson again it will be too soon, she said before she left. Five days later, school started. I cut class six times in the first two weeks. I just couldn’t do school anymore. Something inside wouldn’t let me. It didn’t help that I was reading “The Fountainhead” and had decided that I was Dominique and Aldo was Roark. And finally what we’d all been waiting for happened. My mother announced at dinner, quietly, I want you both to listen to me: the doctor is running more tests on me. Oscar looked like he was going to cry. He put his head down. And my reaction? I looked at her and said, Could you please pass the salt? These days I don’t blame her for smacking me across my face, but right then it was all I needed. We jumped on each other and the table fell and the sancocho spilled all over the floor and Oscar just stood in the corner bellowing, Stop it, stop it, stop it! Hija de tu maldita madre! she shrieked. And I said, This time I hope you die from it. For a couple of days the house was a war zone, and then on Friday she let me out of my room and I was allowed to sit next to her on the sofa and watch novelas with her. She was waiting for her blood work to come back, but you would never have known her life was in the balance. She watched the TV like it was the only thing that mattered, and whenever one of the characters did something underhanded she would start waving her arms: Someone has to stop her! Can’t they see what that puta is up to? I hate you, I said very quietly, but she didn’t hear. Go get me some water, she said. Put an ice cube in it. That was the last thing I did for her. The next morning I was on the bus bound for the shore. One bag, two hundred dollars in tips, Tío Rudolfo’s old knife, and the only picture my mother had of my father, which she had hidden under her bed (she was in the picture, too, but I pretended not to notice). I was so scared. I couldn’t stop shaking. The whole ride down I was expecting the sky to split open and my mother to reach down and shake me. But it didn’t happen. Nobody but the man across the aisle noticed me. You’re really beautiful, he said. Like a girl I once knew. I didn’t write them a note. That’s how much I hated them. Her. That night while Aldo and I lay in his sweltering kitty-litter-infested room I told him: I want you to do it to me. He started unbuttoning my pants. Are you sure? Definitely, I said grimly. He had a long thin dick that hurt like hell, but the whole time I just said, Oh yes, Aldo, yes, because that was what I imagined you were supposed to say while you were losing your virginity to some boy you thought you loved. It was like the stupidest thing I ever did. I was miserable. And so bored. But of course I wouldn’t admit it. I had run away, so I was happy! Happy! Aldo had neglected to mention, all those times he asked me to live with him, that his father hated him like I hated my mother. Aldo, Sr., had been in the Second World War and he’d never forgiven the “Japs” for all the friends he had lost. My dad’s so full of shit, Aldo said. He never left Fort Dix. I don’t think his father said nine words to me the whole time I lived with them. He was one mean viejito and even had a padlock on the refrigerator. Stay the hell out of it, he told me. We couldn’t even get ice cubes out. Aldo and his dad lived in one of the cheapest little bungalows on New Jersey Avenue, and me and Aldo slept in a room where his father kept the litter box for his two cats, and at night we would move it out into the hallway, but he always woke up before us and put it back in the room: I told you to leave my crap alone! Which is funny when you think about it. But it wasn’t funny then. I got a job selling French fries on the boardwalk and between the hot oil and the cat piss I couldn’t smell anything else. On my days off I would drink with Aldo or I would sit in the sand dressed in all black and try to write in my journal, which I was sure would form the foundation for a utopian society after we blew ourselves into radioactive kibble. Sometimes boys would walk up to me and throw lines at me like, Who fuckin’ died? They would sit down next to me in the sand. You a good-looking girl, you should be in a bikini. Why, so you can rape me? Jesus Christ, one of them said, jumping to his feet. What the hell is wrong with you? To this day I don’t know how I lasted. At the beginning of October I was laid off from the French-fry palace; by then most of the boardwalk was closed up and I had nothing to do except hang out at the public library, which was even smaller than my high-school one. Aldo had moved on to working with his dad at his garage, which only made them more pissed off at each other and by extension more pissed off at me. When they got home they would drink Schlitz and complain about the Phillies. I guess I should count myself lucky that they didn’t decide to bury the hatchet by gangbanging me. I stayed out as much as I could and waited for the feeling to come back to me, to tell me what I should do next, but I was bone dry, bereft, no visions whatsoever. I started to think that maybe it was like in the books: as soon as I lost my virginity I lost my power. I got really mad at Aldo after that. You’re a drunk, I told him. And an idiot. So what, he shot back. Your pussy smells. Then stay out of it! I will! But of course I was happy! Happy! I kept waiting to run into my family posting flyers of me on the boardwalk—my mom, the tallest blackest chestiest thing in sight, Oscar looking like the Brown Blob, my tía Rubelka, maybe even my tío if they could get him off the heroin long enough—but the closest I came to any of that was some flyers someone had put up for a lost cat. That’s white people for you. They lose a cat and it’s an all-points bulletin, but we Dominicans lose a daughter and we might not even cancel our appointment at the salon. By November I was so finished. I would sit there with Aldo and his putrid father and the old shows would come on the TV, the ones me and my brother used to watch when we were kids, “Three’s Company,” “What’s Happening!!,” “The Jeffersons,” and my disappointment would grind against some organ that was very soft and tender. It was starting to get cold, too, and wind just walked right into the bungalow and got under your blankets or jumped in the shower with you. It was awful. I kept having these stupid visions of my brother trying to cook for himself. Don’t ask me why. I was the one who cooked for us. The only thing Oscar knew how to make was grilled cheese. I imagined him thin as a reed, wandering around the kitchen, opening cabinets forlornly. I even started dreaming about my mother, except in my dreams she was young, my age, and it was because of those dreams that I realized something obvious: she had run away, too, and that was why we were all in the United States. I put away the photo of her and my father, but the dreams didn’t stop. I guess when a person is with you they’re only with you when they’re with you, but when they’re gone, when they’re really gone, they’re with you forever. And then at the end of November Aldo, my wonderful boyfriend, decided to be cute. I knew he was getting unhappy with us, but I didn’t know exactly how bad it was until one night he had his friends over. His father had gone to Atlantic City and they were all drinking and smoking and telling dumb jokes and suddenly Aldo says, Do you know what Pontiac stands for? Poor Old Nigger Thinks It’s A Cadillac. Who was he looking at when he told his punch line? He was looking straight at me. That night he wanted me but I pushed his hand away. Don’t touch me. Don’t get sore, he said, putting my hand on his cock. It wasn’t nothing. And then he laughed. So what did I do a couple days later—a really dumb thing. I called home. The first time no one answered. The second time it was Oscar. The de León residence, how may I direct your call? That was my brother for you. This is why everybody in the world hated his guts. It’s me, dumb-ass. Lola. He was so quiet and then I realized he was crying. Where are you? You don’t want to know. I switched ears, trying to keep my voice casual. How is everybody? Lola, Mami’s going to kill you. Dumb-ass, could you keep your voice down. Mami isn’t home, is she? She’s working. What a surprise, I said. Mami working. On the last minute of the last hour of the last day my mother would be at work. She would be at work when the missiles were in the air. I guess I must have missed him real bad or I just wanted to see somebody who knew anything about me, or the cat piss had damaged my common sense, because I gave him the address of a coffee shop on the boardwalk and told him to bring my clothes and some of my books. Bring me money, too. He paused. I don’t know where Mami keeps it. You know, Mister. Just bring it. How much? he asked timidly. All of it. That’s a lot of money, Lola. Just bring me the money, Oscar. O.K., O.K. He inhaled deeply. Will you at least tell me if you’re O.K. or not? I’m O.K., I said, and that was the only point in the conversation where I almost cried. I kept quiet until I could speak again and then I asked him how he was going to get down here without our mother finding out. You know me, he said weakly. I might be a dork, but I’m a resourceful dork. I should have known not to trust anybody whose favorite books as a child were Encyclopedia Brown. But I wasn’t really thinking; I was so looking forward to seeing him. By then I had this plan. I was going to convince my brother to run away with me. My plan was that we would go to Dublin. I had met a bunch of Irish guys on the boardwalk and they had sold me on their country. I would become a backup singer for U2 and both Bono and the drummer would fall in love with me, and Oscar could become the Dominican James Joyce. I really believed it would happen, too. That’s how deluded I was by then. The next day I walked into the coffee shop, looking brand-new, and he was there, with the bag. Oscar, I said, laughing. You’re so fat! I know, he said, ashamed. I was worried about you. We embraced for like an hour and then he started crying. Lola, I’m sorry. It’s O.K., I said, and that’s when I looked up and saw my mother and my tía Rubelka and my tío Rudolfo boiling out of the kitchen. Oscar! I screamed, but it was too late. My mother already had me in her hands. She looked so thin and worn, almost like a hag, but she was holding on to me like I was her last nickel, and underneath her red wig her green eyes were furious. I noticed, absently, that she had dressed up for the occasion. That was typical. Muchacha del diablo, she shrieked. I managed to haul her out of the coffee shop and when she pulled back her hand to smack me I broke free. I ran for it. Behind me I could feel her sprawling, hitting the curb hard with a crack, but I wasn’t looking back. No—I was running. In elementary school, whenever we had field day I was always the fastest girl in my grade, took home all the ribbons; they said it wasn’t fair, because I was so big, but I didn’t care. I could even have beaten the boys if I’d wanted to, so there was no way my sick mother, my messed-up tíos, and my fat brother were going to catch me. I was going to run as fast as my long legs could carry me. I was going to run down the boardwalk, past Aldo’s miserable house, out of Wildwood, out of New Jersey, and I wasn’t going to stop. I was going to fly. Anyway, that’s how it should have worked out. But I looked back. I couldn’t help it. It’s not like I didn’t know my Bible, all the pillars-of-salt stuff, but when you’re someone’s daughter that she raised by herself with no help from nobody habits die hard. I just wanted to make sure my mom hadn’t broken her arm or smashed open her skull. I mean, really, who the hell wants to kill her own mother by accident? That’s the only reason I glanced back. She was sprawled on the ground, her wig had fallen out of reach, her poor bald head out in the day like something private and shameful, and she was bawling like a lost calf, Hija, hija! And there I was wanting to run off into my future. It was right then that I needed that feeling to guide me, but it wasn’t anywhere in sight. Only me. In the end I didn’t have the ovaries. She was on the ground, bald as a baby, crying, probably a month away from dying, and here I was, her one and only daughter. And there was nothing I could do about it. So I walked back and when I reached down to help her she clamped on to me with both hands. That was when I realized she hadn’t been crying at all. She’d been faking! Her smile was like a lion’s. Ya te tengo, she said, jumping triumphantly to her feet. Te tengo. And that is how I ended up in Santo Domingo. I guess my mother thought it would be harder for me to run away from an island where I knew no one, and in a way she was right. I’m into my sixth month here and these days I’m just trying to be philosophical about the whole thing. I wasn’t like that at first, but in the end I had to let it go. It was like the fight between the egg and the rock, my abuela said. No winning. I’m actually going to school, not that it’s going to count when I return to Pat-erson, but it keeps me busy and out of trouble and around people my own age. You don’t need to be around us viejos all day, Abuela says. I have mixed feelings about the school. For one thing, it’s improved my Spanish a lot. It’s a private school, a Carol Morgan wanna-be filled with people my tío Carlos Moya calls los hijos de mami y papi. And then there’s me. If you think it was tough being a goth in Paterson, try being a Dominican york in one of those private schools back in D.R. You will never meet bitchier girls in your whole life. They whisper about me to death. Someone else would have had a nervous breakdown, but after Wildwood I’m not so brittle. I don’t let it get to me. And the irony of all ironies? I’m on our school’s track team. I joined because my friend Rosio, the scholarship girl from Los Mina, told me I could win a spot on the team on the length of my legs alone. Those are the pins of a winner, she prophesied. Well, she must have known something I didn’t, because I’m now our school’s top runner in the four hundred metres and under. That I have talent at this simple thing never ceases to amaze me. Karen would pass out if she could see me running sprints out behind my school while Coach Cortés screams at us, first in Spanish and then in Catalán. Breathe, breathe, breathe! I’ve got like no fat left on me and the musculature of my legs impresses everyone, even me. I can’t wear shorts anymore without causing traffic jams, and the other day when my abuela accidentally locked us out of the house she turned to me in frustration and said, Hija, just kick the door open. That pushed a laugh out of both of us. So much has changed these last months, in my head, my heart. Rosio has me dressing up like a real Dominican girl. She’s the one who fixes my hair and helps me with my makeup, and sometimes when I see myself in mirrors I don’t even know who I am anymore. Not that I’m unhappy or anything. Even if I found a hot-air balloon that would whisk me straight to U2’s house I’m not sure I would take it. (I’m still not talking to my traitor brother, though.) The truth is I’m even thinking of staying one more year. Abuela doesn’t want me ever to leave—I’ll miss you, she says so simply it can’t be anything but true—and my mom has told me I can stay if I want to but that I would be welcome at home, too. Tía Rubelka tells me she’s hanging tough, my mother, that she’s back to two jobs. They sent me a picture of the whole family and Abuela framed it and I can’t look at it without misting up. My mother’s not wearing her fakies in it; she looks so thin I don’t even recognize her. Just know that I would die for you, she told me the last time we talked. And before I could say anything she hung up. But that’s not what I wanted to tell you. It’s about that crazy feeling that started this whole mess, the bruja feeling that comes singing out of my bones, that takes hold of me the way blood seizes cotton. The feeling that tells me that everything in my life is about to change. It’s come back. Just the other day I woke up from all these dreams and it was there, pulsing inside of me. I imagine this is what it feels like to have a child in you. At first I was scared, because I thought it was telling me to run away again, but every time I looked around our house, every time I saw my abuela the feeling got stronger, so I knew this was something different. I was dating a boy by then, a sweet morenito by the name of Max Sánchez, who I had met in Los Mina while visiting Rosio. He’s short, but his smile and his snappy dressing make up for a lot. Because I’m from Nueba Yol he talks about how rich he’s going to become and I try to explain to him that I don’t care about that, but he looks at me like I’m crazy. I’m going to get a white Mercedes-Benz, he says. Tú verás. But it’s the job he has that I love best, that got me and him started. In Santo Domingo two or three theatres often share the same set of reels for a movie, so when the first theatre finishes with the first reel they put it in Max’s hands and he rides his motorcycle like crazy to make it to the second theatre and then he drives back, waits, picks up the second reel, and so on. If he’s held up or gets into an accident the first reel will end and there will be no second reel and the people in the audience will throw bottles. So far he’s been blessed, he tells me while kissing his San Miguel medal. Because of me, he brags, one movie becomes three. I’m the man who puts together the pictures. Max is not from la clase alta, as my abuela would describe it, and if any of the stuck-up bitches in school saw us they would just about die, but I’m fond of him. He holds open doors, he calls me his morena; when he’s feeling brave he touches my arm gently and then pulls back. Anyway I thought maybe the feeling was about Max, and so one day I let him take me to one of the love motels. He was so excited he almost fell off the bed, and the first thing he wanted was to look at my ass. I never knew my big ass could be such a star attraction, but he kissed it, four, five times, gave me goose bumps with his breath, and pronounced it a tesoro. When we were done and he was in the bathroom washing himself I stood in front of the mirror naked and looked at my culo for the first time. A tesoro, I repeated. A treasure. Well? Rosio asked at school. And I nodded once, quickly, and she grabbed me and laughed and all the girls I hated turned to look, but what could they do? Happiness, when it comes, is stronger than all the jerk girls in Santo Domingo combined. But I was still confused. Because the feeling, it just kept getting stronger and stronger, wouldn’t let me sleep, wouldn’t give me any peace. I started losing races, which was something I never did. You ain’t so great, are you, gringa, the girls on the other teams hissed at me, and I could only hang my head. Coach Cortés was so unhappy he just locked himself in his car and wouldn’t say anything to any of us. The whole thing was driving me crazy, and then one night I came home from being out with Max. He had taken me for a walk along the Malecón—he never had money for anything else—and we had watched the bats zigzagging over the palms and an old ship head into the distance. While I stretched my hamstrings, he talked quietly about moving to the U.S. My abuela was waiting for me at the living-room table. Even though she still wears black to mourn the husband she lost when she was young she’s one of the most handsome women I’ve ever known. We have the same jagged lightning-bolt part, and when I saw her at the airport, the first time in ten years, I didn’t want to admit it but I knew that things were going to be O.K. between us. She stood like she was her own best thing and when she saw me she said, Hija, I have waited for you since the day you left. And then she hugged me and kissed me and said, I’m your abuela, but you can call me La Inca. Standing over her that night, her part like a crack in her hair, I felt a surge of tenderness. I put my arms around her and that was when I noticed that she was looking at photos. Old photos, the kind I’d never seen in my house. Photos of my mother when she was young, before she had her breasts. She was even skinnier than me! I picked the smallest photo up. Mami was standing in front of a bakery. Even with an apron on she looked potent, like someone who was going to be someone. She was very guapa, I said casually. Abuela snorted. Guapa soy yo. Your mother was a diosa. But so cabeza dura. When she was your age we never got along. She was cabeza dura and I was . . . exigente. You and her are more alike than you think. I know she ran away. From you. From Santo Domingo. La Inca stared at me, incredulous. Your mother didn’t run away. We had to send her away. To keep her from being murdered. To keep us all from being murdered. She didn’t listen and she fell in love with the wrong man. She didn’t listen. Jesu Cristo, hija— She was about to say something more and then she stopped. And that’s when it hit with the force of a hurricane. The feeling. My abuela was sitting there, forlorn, trying to cobble together the right words, and I could not move or breathe. I felt like I always did in the last seconds of a race, when I was sure that I was going to explode. She was about to say something and I was waiting for whatever she was going to give me. I was waiting to begin. 
Roy Spivey Twice I have sat next to a famous man on an airplane. The first man was Jason Kidd, of the New Jersey Nets. I asked him why he didn’t fly first class, and he said that it was because his cousin worked for United. “Wouldn’t that be all the more reason to get first class?” “It’s cool,” he said, unfurling his legs into the aisle. I let it go, because what do I know about the ins and outs of being a sports celebrity? We didn’t talk for the rest of the flight. I can’t say the name of the second famous person, but I will tell you that he is a Hollywood heartthrob who is married to a starlet. Also, he has the letter “V” in his first name. That’s all—I can’t say anything more than that. Think espionage. O.K., the end—that really is all. I’ll call him Roy Spivey, which is almost an anagram of his name. If I were a more self-assured person I would not have volunteered to give up my seat on an overcrowded flight, would not have been upgraded to first class, would not have been seated beside him. This was my reward for being a pushover. He slept for the first hour, and it was startling to see such a famous face look so vulnerable and empty. He had the window seat and I had the aisle, and I felt as though I were watching over him, protecting him from the bright lights and the paparazzi. Sleep, little spy, sleep. He’s actually not little, but we’re all children when we sleep. For this reason, I always let men see me asleep early on in a relationship. It makes them realize that even though I am five feet eleven I am fragile and need to be taken care of. A man who can see the weakness of a giant knows that he is a man indeed. Soon, small women make him feel almost fey—and, lo, he now has a thing for tall women. Roy Spivey shifted in his seat, waking. I quickly shut my own eyes, and then slowly opened them, as if I, too, had been sleeping. Oh, but he hadn’t quite opened his yet. I shut mine again and right away opened them, slowly, and he opened his, slowly, and our eyes met, and it seemed as if we had woken from a single sleep, from the dream of our entire lives. Me, a tall but otherwise undistinguished woman; he a distinguished spy, but not really, just an actor, but not really, just a man, maybe even just a boy. That’s the other way that my height can work on men, the more common way: I become their mother. We talked ceaselessly for the next two hours, having the conversation that is specifically about everything. He told me intimate details about his wife, the beautiful Ms. M. Who would have guessed that she was so troubled? “Oh, yeah, everything in the tabloids is true.” “It is?” “Yeah, especially about her eating disorder.” “But the affairs?” “No, not the affairs, of course not. You can’t believe the ’bloids.” “ ’Bloids?” “We call them ’bloids. Or tabs.” When the meals were served, it felt as if we were eating breakfast in bed together, and when I got up to use the bathroom he joked, “You’re leaving me!” And I said, “I’ll be back!” As I walked up the aisle, many of the passengers stared at me, especially the women. Word had travelled fast in this tiny flying village. Perhaps there were even some ’bloid writers on the flight. There were definitely some ’bloid readers. Had we been talking loudly? It seemed to me that we were whispering. I looked in the mirror while I was peeing and wondered if I was the plainest person he had ever talked to. I took off my blouse and tried to wash under my arms, which isn’t really possible in such a small bathroom. I tossed handfuls of water toward my armpits and they landed on my skirt. It was made from the kind of fabric that turns much darker when it is wet. This was a real situation I had got myself into. I acted quickly, taking off my skirt and soaking the whole thing in the sink, then wringing it out and putting it back on. I smoothed it out with my hands. There. It was all a shade darker now. I walked back down the aisle, being careful not to touch anyone with my dark skirt. When Roy Spivey saw me, he shouted, “You came back!” And I laughed and he said, “What happened to your skirt?” I sat down and explained the whole thing, starting with the armpits. He listened quietly until I was done. “So were you able to wash your armpits in the end?” “No.” “Are they smelly?” “I think so.” “I can smell them and tell you.” “No.” “It’s O.K. It’s part of showbiz.” “Really?” “Yeah. Here.” He leaned over and pressed his nose against my shirt. “It’s smelly.” “Oh. Well, I tried to wash it.” But he was standing up now, climbing past me to the aisle and rummaging around in the overhead bin. He fell back into his seat dramatically, holding a pump bottle. “It’s Febreze.” “Oh, I’ve heard about that.” “It dries in seconds, taking odor with it. Lift up your arms.” I lifted my arms, and with great focus he pumped three hard sprays under each sleeve. “It’s best if you keep your arms out until it dries.” I held them out. One arm extended into the aisle and the other arm crossed his chest, my hand pressing against the window. It was suddenly obvious how tall I was. Only a very tall woman could shoulder such a wingspan. He stared at my arm in front of his chest for a moment, then he growled and bit it. Then he laughed. I laughed, too, but I did not know what this was, this biting of my arm. “What was that?” “That means I like you!” “O.K.” “Do you want to bite me?” “No.” “You don’t like me?” “No, I do.” “Is it because I’m famous?” “No.” “Just because I’m famous doesn’t mean I don’t need what everyone else needs. Here, bite me anywhere. Bite my shoulder.” He slid back his jacket, unbuttoned the first four buttons on his shirt, and pulled it back, exposing a large, tanned shoulder. I leaned over and very quickly bit it lightly, and then picked up my SkyMall catalogue and began reading. After a minute, he rebuttoned himself and slowly picked up his copy of SkyMall. We read like this for a good half hour. During this time I was careful not to think about my life. My life was far below us, in an orangey-pink stucco apartment building. It seemed as though I might never have to return to it now. The salt of his shoulder buzzed on the tip of my tongue. I might never again stand in the middle of the living room and wonder what to do next. I sometimes stood there for up to two hours, unable to generate enough momentum to eat, to go out, to clean, to sleep. It seemed unlikely that someone who had just bitten and been bitten by a celebrity would have this kind of problem. I read about vacuum cleaners designed to suck insects out of the air. I studied self-heating towel racks, and fake rocks that could hide a key. We were beginning our descent. We adjusted our seat backs and tray tables. Roy Spivey suddenly turned to me and said, “Hey.” “Hey,” I said. “Hey, I had an amazing time with you.” “I did, too.” “I’m going to write down a number, and I want you to guard it with your life.” “O.K.” “This phone number falls into the wrong hands and I’ll have to get someone to change it, and that is a big headache.” “O.K.” He wrote the number on a page from the SkyMall catalogue and ripped it out and pressed it into my palm. “This is my kids’ nanny’s personal line. The only people who call her on this line are her boyfriend and her son. So she’ll always answer it. You’ll always get through. And she’ll know where I am.” I looked at the number. “It’s missing a digit.” “I know. I want you to just memorize the last number, O.K.?” “O.K.” “It’s four.” We turned our faces to the front of the plane, and Roy Spivey gently took my hand. I was still holding the paper with the number, so he held it with me. I felt warm and simple. Nothing bad could ever happen to me while I was holding hands with him, and when he let go I would have the number that ended in four. I’d wanted a number like this my whole life. The plane landed gracefully, like an easily drawn line. He helped me pull my carry-on bag down from the bin; it looked obscenely familiar. “My people are going to be waiting for me out there, so I won’t be able to say goodbye properly.” “I know. That’s all right.” “No, it really isn’t. It’s a travesty.” “But I understand.” “O.K., here’s what I’m going to do. Just before I leave the airport, I’m going to come up to you and say, ‘Do you work here?’ ” “It’s O.K. I really do understand.” “No, this is important to me. I’ll say, ‘Do you work here?’ And then you say your part.” “What’s my part?” “You say, ‘No.’ ” “O.K.” “And I’ll know what you mean. We’ll know the secret meaning.” “O.K.” We looked into each other’s eyes in a way that said that nothing else mattered as much as us. I asked myself if I would kill my parents to save his life, a question I had been posing since I was fifteen. The answer always used to be yes. But in time all those boys had faded away and my parents were still there. I was now less and less willing to kill them for anyone; in fact, I worried for their health. In this case, however, I had to say yes. Yes, I would. We walked down the tunnel between the plane and real life, and then, without so much as a look in my direction, he glided away from me. I tried not to look for him in the baggage-claim area. He would find me before he left. I went to the bathroom. I claimed my bag. I drank from the water fountain. I watched children hit each other. Finally, I let my eyes crawl over everyone. They were all not him, every single one of them. But they all knew his name. Those who were talented at drawing could have drawn him from memory, and everyone else could certainly have described him, if they’d had to, say, to a blind person—the blind being the only people who wouldn’t know what he looked like. And even the blind would have known his wife’s name, and a few of them would have known the name of the boutique where his wife had bought a lavender tank top and matching boy shorts. Roy Spivey was both nowhere to be found and everywhere. Someone tapped me on the shoulder. “Excuse me, do you work here?” It was him. Except that it wasn’t him, because there was no voice in his eyes; his eyes were mute. He was acting. I said my line. “No.” A pretty young airport attendant appeared beside me. “I work here. I can help you,” she said enthusiastically. He paused for a fraction of a second and then said, “Great.” I waited to see what he would come up with, but the attendant glared at me, as if I were rubbernecking, and then rolled her eyes at him, as if she were protecting him from people like me. I wanted to yell, “It was a code! It had a secret meaning!” But I knew how this would look, so I moved along. That evening, I found myself standing in the middle of my living-room floor. I had made dinner and eaten it, and then I had an idea that I might clean the house. But halfway to the broom I stopped on a whim, flirting with the emptiness in the center of the room. I wanted to see if I could start again. But, of course, I knew what the answer would be. The longer I stood there, the longer I had to stand there. It was intricate and exponential. I looked like I was doing nothing, but really I was as busy as a physicist or a politician. I was strategizing my next move. That my next move was always not to move didn’t make it any easier. I let go of the idea of cleaning and just hoped that I would get to bed at a reasonable hour. I thought of Roy Spivey in bed with Ms. M. And then I remembered the number. I took it out of my pocket. He had written it across a picture of pink curtains. They were made out of a fabric that was originally designed for the space shuttle; they changed density in reaction to fluctuations of light and heat. I mouthed all the numbers and then said the missing one out loud: “Four.” It felt risky and illicit. I yelled, “FOUR!” And moved easily into the bedroom. I put on my nightgown, brushed my teeth, and went to bed. Over the course of my life, I’ve used the number many times. Not the telephone number, just the four. When I first met my husband, I used to whisper “four” while we had intercourse, because it was so painful. Then I learned about a tiny operation that I could have to enlarge myself. I whispered “four” when my dad died of lung cancer. When my daughter got into trouble doing God knows what in Mexico City, I said “four” to myself as I gave her my credit-card number over the phone. Which was confusing—thinking one number and saying another. My husband jokes about my lucky number, but I’ve never told him about Roy. You shouldn’t underestimate a man’s capacity for feeling threatened. You don’t have to be a great beauty for men to come to blows over you. At my high-school reunion, I pointed out a teacher I’d once had a crush on, and by the end of the night this teacher and my husband were wrestling in a hotel parking garage. My husband said that it was about issues of race, but I knew. Some things are best left unsaid. This morning, I was cleaning out my jewelry box when I came upon a little slip of paper with pink curtains on it. I thought I had lost it long ago, but, no, there it was, folded underneath a dried-up carnation and some impractically heavy bracelets. I hadn’t whispered “four” in years. The idea of luck made me feel a little weary now, like Christmas when you’re not in the mood. I stood by the window and studied Roy Spivey’s handwriting in the light. He was older now—we all were—but he was still working. He had his own TV show. He wasn’t a spy anymore; he played the father of twelve rascally kids. It occurred to me now that I had missed the point entirely. He had wanted me to call him. I looked out the window: my husband was in the driveway, vacuuming out the car. I sat on the bed with the number in my lap and the phone in my hands. I dialled all the digits, including the invisible one that had shepherded me through my adult life. It was no longer in service. Of course it wasn’t. It was preposterous for me to have thought that it would still be his nanny’s private line. Roy Spivey’s children had long since grown up. The nanny was probably working for someone else, or maybe she’d done well for herself—put herself through nursing school or business school. Good for her. I looked down at the number and felt a tidal swell of loss. It was too late. I had waited too long. I listened to the sound of my husband beating the car mats on the sidewalk. Our ancient cat pressed against my legs, wanting food. But I couldn’t seem to stand up. Minutes passed, almost an hour. Now it was starting to get dark. My husband was downstairs making a drink and I was about to stand up. Crickets were chirping in the yard and I was about to stand up. 
1966 Bill Houston’s Honolulu shore leave commenced with the forenoon watch, too early for a man with money to spend: on top of everything, the Navy wished to deny him any night life. He took a shuttle bus from the naval station, across the open fields of the Air Force base, then through town to Waikiki Beach, and wandered dejected among the big hotels, sat on the sand in his Levi’s and wild Hawaiian shirt and very clean shoes—white bucks with red rubber soles—ate grilled pork on a wooden skewer at a kiosk, took a city bus to Richards Street, booked a bed at the Armed Services Y.M.C.A., and started drinking in the waterfront bars at one in the afternoon. He tried an air-conditioned place favored by young officers, where he sat at a table by himself smoking Lucky Strikes and drinking Lucky Lager. It made him feel lucky. When he’d collected enough change, he called home to the mainland, chatted with his younger brother James. That just made him more depressed. His brother James was stupid. His brother James was going to end up in the military, too. He strolled the waterfront with the beer thudding inside his head, a lonely feeling pulling at his heart. By 3 P.M., the pavement of Honolulu had baked so hot it sucked at his rubber shoe soles as he walked. He hid inside the Big Surf Club, trading beers with two men slightly older than he was, one of them a man named Kinney, who’d recently joined the crew on Houston’s ship—the U.S.N.S. Bonners Ferry, a T2 tanker manned mostly by civilians, of whom Kinney was one. But he hadn’t just waltzed on board for a tropical cruise. He’d spent time in the Navy, had lived on ship after ship, and had no real home ashore. This afternoon, Kinney had attached himself to a barefoot beach bum who seemed hopped up on something. The bum bought the table two pitchers in a row and eventually revealed that he’d served in the Third Marines in Vietnam before landing back home on an early discharge. “Yeah, baby,” the bum said. “I got the medical.” “Why?” “Why? Because I’m mentally disabled.” “You seem all right.” “You seem all right if you buy us a beer,” Kinney said. “No problem. I’m on disability. Two forty-two a month. I can drink a serious amount of Hamm’s, man, if I sleep on the beach like a moke and eat what the mokes eat.” “What do the mokes eat? Who are the mokes?” “Around here you got the mokes and the howlies. We are the howlies. The mokes are the native fuckers. What do they eat? They eat cheap. Then, there’s a whole lot of Japs and Chinks, you probably noticed. They’re in the gook category. You know why gook food stinks so bad? Because they fry it up with rat turds and roaches and whatever else gets in with the rice. They don’t care. You ask them what the fuck stinks around here and they don’t even know what you’re talking about. Yeah, I’ve seen some things,” the bum went on. “Over there, the gooks wear these funny straw hats, you probably seen them—they’re pointy? Girls riding on a bicycle, you grab their hat when you go by and you just about yank their head off because they’re tied with a string. Yank her right off the bike, man, and she goes fucked up in the mud. I saw one this one time where she was all bent like this, man. Her neck was snapped. She was dead.” Bill Houston was completely confused. “What? Where?” “Where? In South Vietnam, man, in Bien Hoa. Right in the middle of town, practically.” “That’s fucked up, man.” “Yeah? And it’s fucked up when one of them honeys tosses a grenade in your lap because you let her get up beside you on the road, man. They know the rules. They know they should keep their distance. The ones who don’t keep their distance, they probably have a grenade.” Houston and Kinney kept quiet. They had nothing comparable to talk about. The guy drank his beer. A moment almost like sleep came over them. Still nobody had spoken, but the bum said, as if answering something, “That ain’t nothing. I’ve seen some things.” “Well, let’s see some beer,” Kinney said. “Ain’t it your round?” The bum didn’t seem to remember who’d bought what. He kept the pitchers coming. James Houston came home from the last day of his third year in high school. Got off the bus raising his middle finger at the driver and whooping. His mother had caught a ride out to work and left the truck in the driveway, as he’d asked her to. His little brother, Burris, stood in the driveway with a finger in one of his ears, peering down the barrel of a cap pistol while he pulled the trigger repeatedly. “Watch your eyes, Burris. I’ve heard of a kid got a spark in his eye and he had to go to the hospital.” “What are caps made of?” “Gunpowder.” “What? Gunpowder?” The telephone rang inside. “I’m not allowed to answer,” Burris said. “Did they turn the phone back on?” “I don’t know.” “Well, it’s ringing, ain’t it?” “Shut up.” “Now it done quit, you fool.” “I wouldn’t answer anyhow. It sounds like bugs talking in there. Not people.” “You’re a funny feller,” James said, and went inside, where it was hot and smelled a little like garbage. His mother refused to turn on the evaporative cooler unless the temperature got into the hundreds. He carried a number of papers from school—homework, report card, year-end bulletins. He shoved them into the trash can under the sink. The phone rang again. It was his brother Bill, Jr. “Is it hot in Phoenix?” “It’s almost a hundred, yeah.” “It’s hot here, too. It’s sweaty.” “Where you calling from?” “Honolulu, Hawaii. Hour ago I was standing on Waikiki Beach.” “Honolulu?” “Yep.” “Do you see any hula girls?” “I see a bunch of whores, is all. But I bet they’ll do the hula.” “I bet they will, too!” “What do you know about it?” “Me? I don’t know,” James said. “I was just saying.” “God damn, I wish I was back in good old Arizona.” “Well, I’m not the one who reënlisted.” “You can put me in a nice clean desert anytime you want to. It’s honest heat there, ain’t it? It’s dry and burning. This here’s mushy, is what it is. Hey, kid, imagine this—did you ever lift the lid on a kettle full of boiling sewage? That’s what it’s like stepping out on the street in this place.” “So,” James said, “what all else is going on?” “How old are you, anyway?” “I’ll be seventeen here pretty quick.” “What are you gonna do?” “What am I gonna do? I don’t know.” “Are you done with school?” “I don’t know.” “What do you mean, you don’t know? Did you graduate?” “I’d have to go one more year to graduate.” “Ain’t nothing else to do besides graduate, is there?” “Not where I can see. Or I was thinking about the Army, maybe.” “Why not the Navy?” “Too many sailors in the Navy, pard.” “You’re a wise-ass, pard. Better join the Army, pard. Because you’d just get your ass kicked repeatedly in my branch of the service.” James was at a loss. He didn’t actually know this guy. The operator interrupted, and Bill had to deposit more coins. “Well,” James said, “are you in a bar, or what?” “Yeah, a bar. I’m in a bar in Honolulu, Hawaii.” “Well, I guess that’s . . .” He didn’t know what it was. “Yeah. I been in the Philippines, Hong Kong, Honolulu—let me see, where else? I don’t know—and the tropics ain’t no tropical paradise, I’m saying. It’s full of rot—bugs, sweat, stink, and I don’t know what all else. And most of the beautiful tropical fruit you see, it’s rotten—it’s mashed on the street.” James said, “Well . . . I’m glad you called.” “Yeah,” Bill said. “O.K.” “O.K.,” Bill said. “Hey, tell Mom I called, O.K.? And tell her I said hi.” “O.K.” “O.K. . . . Tell her I love her.” “O.K. So long.” “Hey. Hey. James.” “Yeah?” “You still there?” “I’m still here.” “Go in the Marines, man.” “Aah, them are overrated.” “The Marines get a sword.” “The Marines are really the Navy,” James said. “Part of the Navy.” “Yeah . . . Well . . .” “Well . . .” “Only the officers get a sword, anyway,” Bill said. “Yeah.” “Well, I gotta go get laid,” Bill said. “Get some!” “What do you know about it?” his brother said, laughing as he hung up. James searched the kitchen drawers and found a half pack of his mother’s Salems. Before he got out the door the phone rang—Bill, Jr. “Is it you again?” “Last time I looked, yeah.” “What’s up?” “Say hi to South Mountain for me.” “We don’t see South Mountain no more. We see the Papago Buttes.” “On the east side?” “We’re on East McDowell.” “East McDowell?” “Ain’t that the shits?” “You’re out in the desert!” “Mom’s working on a horse ranch.” “I’ll be God-damned.” “She knows about horses from when she was a little girl.” “Watch out the Gila monster don’t bite you.” “There ain’t much shade, but it’s nice. We’re right up near the Pima Reservation.” “And you’re in school.” “I been at Palo Verde for a while, since about October, maybe.” “Palo Verde?” “Yeah.” “Palo Verde?” “Yeah.” “When we lived over on South Central, our school used to play Palo Verde in basketball or something, or football. What was the name of our school that time?” “I went to the elementary. Carson Elementary.” “I’ll be God-damned. I can’t remember the name of my own high school I went to.” “Ain’t that the shits?” “Do you ever get to Florence?” “Nope.” “Do you ever see Dad?” “Nope,” James said. “He ain’t my dad, is why.” “Well, you stay out of trouble. Learn by his example.” “I don’t follow none of his examples. I don’t even look at his examples.” “Well,” Bill, Jr., said, “anyway . . .” “Anyway. Yeah. Are you really on Waikiki Beach?” “Not really. Not right now.” “We’re right about at Fifty-second and McDowell. They have a zoo over here.” “A what?” “Yeah, a little zoo.” “Hey, tell Mom something—when is she gonna be home?” “Later. A couple hours.” “Maybe I’ll call her. I wanna tell her about something. There’s two guys on my ship from Oklahoma, so, anyway, you know what they both said? Said I sound like Oklahoma. I said, ‘Well, sir, I never been—but my people are.’ Tell Mom that, O.K.?” “I’ll do that.” “Tell her she started me in Oklahoma, and I come out like I’m from there.” “O.K.” “O.K.—that’s short for Oklahoma!” “I’ll be God-damned,” James said. “Yeah. Ain’t that the shits?” “O.K.” “O.K. So long.” They hung up. Drunk as a lord, James thought. Probably an alkie, like his father. Burris marched in with his cap gun in one hand and a Popsicle in the other, wearing his short pants and nothing else, looking like a little stick man. “I think I got a spark in my eye.” James said, “I gotta get going.” “Does it look like I got a spark in my eye?” “No. Shut up, you peculiar little feller.” “Can I ride in the back of the truck?” “Not unless you want to get bumped out and killed.” He showered and changed, and just as he was going out the phone rang. His brother again. “Hey . . . James.” “Yeah.” “Hey. Hey. Hey.” James hung up and left the house. James picked up Charlotte, and then Rollo, and then a girl Rollo liked named Stevie Dale, short for Stephanie, and they drove out toward the McDowell Mountains looking for a party they’d heard about, a wild, unchaperoned outdoor affair, supposedly, off the road and out in the desert away from anything; but if such a gathering was actually being held it was lost in a maze of dry washes, and they steered back to the highway and sat in the bed of the pickup drinking beer. “Couldn’t you get it no colder?” James asked. “I stole it from the icebox in the barn,” Rollo said. “Can’t even find a party on graduation night,” James said. “This isn’t graduation night,” Charlotte said. “What is it, then?” “It’s the last day of school. I’m not graduating. Are you graduating?” “Warm beer,” James said. “I’ll never graduate,” Charlotte said. “I don’t care.” Rollo said, “Yeah, who gives a flying fuck,” and they all laughed at his vulgarity, and he said, “We’re country kids.” “No, we ain’t,” James said. “Your mother works on a horse ranch. My dad messes with irrigation. And there’s a great big barn behind my house, pardner.” “It’s nicer out here,” Stevie Dale said. “No cops.” “That’s true,” James said. “Ain’t nobody to bother you.” “Just mind the snakes.” “Mind this snake,” Rollo said, and the girls laughed. It was a disappointment to James that when the two girls laughed Charlotte had to be the one who forced beer out her nose. Stevie was younger, just a freshman, but she seemed simpler and not so nervous. Stevie kept her back straight, and she smoked in a sexy way. What was he doing with Charlotte? Actually, it was Stevie that he liked. He dropped Rollo off, and then he drove Charlotte home. Stevie kind of ended up still in the truck. He made sure to let Charlotte off first. He kissed her goodbye as they stood out front of her house. She locked her arms behind his neck and clung to him, her lips slack and wet. James held her with his left arm only, and let the right one dangle. Charlotte’s older brother, out of work, came and stared from the doorway. “Shut the door or turn off the damn cooler, you fool,” her mother called from within. James asked Stevie, “You need to go home?” “Not exactly,” she said. “Not really.” “You want to drive around?” “Sure. That might be nice.” They ended up right back where they’d been with the others an hour before, looking out at the low mountains, listening to the radio. “What’s your plans for the summer?” Stevie said. “I’m waiting on a sign.” “That means you don’t have any,” she said. “Any what?” “Any plans.” “I don’t know if I should aim for just a summer job or find something real and permanent—just not go back to school.” “You mean drop out?” “I was thinking I’d get in the service, like my dad.” She made no response to this idea. She placed her fingertip on the dashboard and rubbed it back and forth. James was entirely out of conversation. His neck felt so taut he doubted he could even turn his head. Not one word occurred to him to say. He wished she’d say something about Charlotte. All she said was “What are you so sulky about?” “Shit.” “What?” “I think I gotta break up with Charlotte. I really have to.” “Yeah . . . I’d say she probably feels it coming.” “Really? She does?” “You’re just not lit up around her, James, not at all.” “You can tell, huh?” “You’ve got a cloud raining down all around you.” “What about right now this minute?” “What?” “Ain’t raining down on me right this minute, is it?” “No.” She was smiling. She was the sun. “Are you really going into the service?” “Yep. The Army or the Marines. I guess you’re gonna let me kiss you now, ain’t you?” She laughed. “You’re funny.” He kissed her a long time, and then she said, “That’s what I like about you. You’re funny when you’re happy. And you’re good-looking—that’s one thing, too,” and they spent a while kissing, until a commercial came on the radio, and he spent some time with the dial. “Hmm,” she said. “What is it, Stevie?” “I’m trying to think, Does this man kiss like the Army or like the Marines? Hmm,” she said, kissing him. She broke away. “Maybe the U.S. Air Force.” He kissed her and very gently touched her arms, her cheeks, her neck. He knew better than to put his hands where he wanted to. “I’ve got one warm beer left,” he said. “Go ahead. I’m not thirsty.” He sat against the driver’s door, and she against hers. He was glad the sun was setting, so he didn’t have to worry what he looked like. Sometimes he wasn’t sure the expression on his face made any sense. Now he had to burp. He just went ahead and did it loudly and said, “Greetings from the interior.” Stevie said, “Your dad’s in prison, isn’t he?” “Where’d you get that one?” “Is he?” “No, that’s more my stepdad,” James said. “Just some guy, really. He’s my mother’s fault, not mine.” “And your real dad’s in the service, huh?” James draped his arms over the wheel and rested his chin on them, staring out. So now she suddenly thought they should tell their worst secrets to each other. He got out and went behind some scrub and took a leak. The sun had dropped behind Camelback Mountain, southwest of them. The sky was still pure blue above, and then at the horizon tinted some other color, a rosy yellow that went away when you looked at it. Beside her again in the truck he said, “Well, I just made up my mind: I’m joining the Army Infantry.” “Really? The infantry, huh?” “Yep.” “Then what? Specialize in something?” “I’m going to get over there to Vietnam.” “And then what?” “I’m going to fuck up a whole lot of people.” “God,” she said. “You’re not with the guys here, you know. I’m a female.” “Sorry about that, chief.” She put her hand on the back of his neck and touched his hair tenderly with her fingers. To stop her doing it, he sat up straight. “That’s an awful thing to say, James.” “What?” “What you said.” “It just came out. I didn’t mean it, I don’t think.” “Then don’t say it.” “Shit. Do you think I’m that evil?” “Everybody’s got a mean side. Just don’t feed it till it grows.” They kissed some more. “Well, anyhow,” he said, “what do you feel like doing at the moment?” “What . . . I don’t know. Do we have gas?” “Yep.” It thrilled him that she’d said “we.” “Let’s drive around and see what’s going on.” “Let’s take the long way.” That meant that he’d make a serious pass at her. “O.K.” That meant that she wouldn’t mind. James stood out front of the house in the dark as his mother came home from work in Tom Mooney’s Chevy convertible, staring out the passenger side with her mouth lagging open, her face hidden by a ragged straw hat, a bandanna protecting her neck. Mooney waved to James, and James dropped his cigarette butt to the earth and stomped it out and waved. By then the Chevy was gone. She went on inside without a word for her son, this silence both unusual and welcome. It lasted until he followed her into the kitchen. “If you don’t think that ranch has about wore me out, just come feel the muscle a-quivering on this arm. If I heat a can of soup, you better eat it. Don’t make me fuss and then just sit there dreaming your dreams.” She turned on the kitchen light and stood under it looking small and spent. “I’ve got bologna and I’ve got tomaters. Do you want a sandwich? Sit down, and I’ll make us soup and sandwiches. Where’s Burris?” “Who?” “He’ll be around. He’s always hungry. I lost weight while I carried him to term. I started out one-nineteen, and in my ninth month I was down to one-eleven. He fed on me from the inside.” Wiping at her face, she smeared it with dirt from her hand. “Mom. Wash up before you cook.” “Oh, Lord,” she said. “I’m just so tired I forget I’m alive. Open the can for me, hon.” They ate peanut butter and jelly and Campbell’s soup. “I’ll cut up this tomater.” “I just ate. I don’t want it.” “You’ve got to have vegetables.” “There’s vegetables in the soup. That’s why it’s called ‘Vegetable Soup.’ ” “Don’t run away. I mean to talk to you. When is your school done for the summer?” “It finished up today.” “Come to work at the ranch, then.” “I don’t know about that.” “What don’t you know? Do you know a dollar when you don’t see one? Because I don’t see one.” “I was thinking about the military. Maybe the Army.” “When? Now?” “I’m seventeen.” “Seventeen and crazy.” “Bill, Jr., was seventeen. You signed for him.” “It didn’t hurt him, I suppose.” “He called today.” “He called? What did he say?” “Nothing. He’s in Honolulu.” “I’ve never seen a dime from him. Not that I’d ever ask it.” “If I get in the Army, I’ll send you some.” “Once or twice he sent some money. Not regular. He hasn’t lately. And I can’t ask him because my pride strangles me.” “I’ll send some every payday, I swear,” James said. “You decide that on your own.” “Does that mean you’d sign for me?” She didn’t answer. He picked up a fork and started eating sliced tomato. “You send me the envelope every month, I’ll send you some money back inside it.” “Did you talk to the recruiters yet?” “I will.” “When?” “I will.” “Will when?” “Monday.” “If you have the papers Monday night, and you can show me some good reasons for the service, I might sign. But if you’re just dreaming then Tuesday you better wake up and get over to the ranch with me. I got the phone back on, but the rent is waiting on the Lord to move. Where’s Burris?” “He’ll come when he’s hungry.” “He’s always hungry,” she said, and began to say all over again the same things she’d just told him, because she was unable not to say them. His mother was unable to be quiet. She read the Bible all the time. She was too old to be his mother, too worn out and stupid to be his mother. Bill Houston thoroughly enjoyed beer, but there was a point where it started to stick in his throat. This tavern must have been facing west, because the burning sun came through the open door. No air-conditioning, but he was used to that in the places he drank in. It was a dive, all right. He came back from the toilet, and Kinney was still interrogating the beach bum, the ex-marine. “What did you do? Tell me exactly what you did.” “Nothing. Fuck it.” Bill Houston sat down and said, “I got nothing against you boys. Got a little brother wants to go in the Marines.” The ex-marine was drunk. “That ain’t nothing. I’ve seen some things.” “He’s talking like he did something to some woman over there,” Kinney said. “Where?” Houston said. “Vietnam, God damn it,” Kinney said. “Aren’t you listening?” “I’ve seen some things,” the bum said. “What it was, they held this woman down and this one guy cut her pussy out. That stuff happens there all the time.” “Jesus God. No shit?” “I did some of it, too.” “You did it?” “I was there.” Houston said, “You really”—he couldn’t quite repeat it—“you really did that?” Kinney said, “You cut up some bitch’s cunt?” “I was right there when it happened. Right nearby, right in the same—almost in the same village.” “It was your guys? Your outfit? Somebody in your platoon?” “Not ours. It was some Korean guys, a Korean outfit. Those fuckers are senseless.” “Now shut the fuck up,” Kinney said, “and tell us what the fuck you did.” “There’s a lot of bad business that goes on,” the man said. “You’re bullshit. The U.S. Marines would never put up with that. You’re so bullshit.” The guy held up both hands like an arrestee. “Hey, wow, man—what’s all the excitement about?” “Just tell me you cut up a living woman, and I’ll admit you’re not bullshit.” The bartender shouted, “You! I told you before! You want beef? You want scrap?”—a big fat Hawaiian with no shirt on. “This is a moke right here,” the beach bum said as the bartender threw down his rag and came over. “I told you to get out of here.” “That was yesterday.” “I told you to get out of here with that talk. That means I don’t wanna see you yesterday, today, and tomorrow.” “Hey, I got a beer here.” “Take it with you. I don’t care.” Kinney stood up. “Let’s get the fuck out of this shit-hole moke joint.” He put his hand up under his shirt at the level of his belt. “You pull a gun in here you gonna do time, if I don’t kill you.” “I get mad easy on a hot day.” “Get out, you three.” “You making me mad?” The young bum laughed insanely and hopped backward toward the door, dangling his arms like a monkey. Houston, too, hurried for the exit, saying, “Come on, come on, come on!” He was pretty sure he’d actually seen a gun butt in the waist of Kinney’s jeans. “See—that’s a moke. Right there,” the bum said once they got outside. “They act all rough and tough. You get an advantage on them, and right away they cry like little babies.” They each bought a jug of Mad Dog 20/20 from a grocer who demanded that they buy three loaves of Wonder bread along with the wine, but it was still a bargain. They ate a little of the bread and tossed the rest to a couple of dogs. Soon they walked, drunk, surrounded by a pack of hungry strays, toward a glaring white strip of beach and the black sea and blue froth crashing on the sand. A man stopped his car, a white official-looking Ford Galaxie, and rolled down his window. He was an admiral in uniform. “Are you fellas enjoying the hell out of yourselves?” “Yes, sir!” Kinney said, saluting by putting his middle finger to his eyebrow. “I hope like hell you are,” the admiral said. “Because hard times are coming for assholes like you.” He rolled up his window and drove away. The rest of the afternoon they spent drinking on the beach. Kinney sat against the trunk of a palm tree. The bum lay flat on his back with his Mad Dog balanced on his chest. Houston took off his shoes and socks to feel the sand mounding under his arches. He felt his heart expanding. At this moment he finally understood the phrase “tropical paradise.” He told his two comrades, “What I’m saying, I mean, about these mokes—I think they’re related to the Indians that live down around my home. And not just them Indians but also Indians that are from India, and every other kind of person you can think of who’s like that, who’s got something Oriental going on, and that’s why I think, really, there ain’t that many different kinds of people on this earth. And that’s why I’m against war.” He waved his Mad Dog around. “And that’s why I’m a pacifist.” It was wonderful to stand on the beach before this audience and gesture with a half gallon of wine and talk. Kinney, however, did disturbing things. With a dreamy look on his face, he tipped his bottle above his shiny black dress shoes and watched the wine dribble onto the toes. He tossed several pinches of sand in the bum’s direction, speckling his chest, his face, his mouth. The bum brushed it away and pretended not to realize where it was coming from. Kinney suggested taking the party to a friend’s house. “I want you to meet this guy,” he told the bum, “and then we’re gonna fix your bullshit.” “Fine with me, asshole,” the bum said. Kinney held up his thumb and forefinger pressed together. “I’d like to get you in a space about that big,” he said. They headed across the beach to find the house of Kinney’s friend. Houston was in agony, dealing with bare feet on the hot sand, and now on the black asphalt. “Where are your shoes, you moron?” Houston had his white socks in the pockets of his Levi’s, but his shoes were gone. He stopped to purchase a seventeen-cent pair of zoris at a store. They had a sale on Thunderbird, but Kinney said that his friend owed him money and promised to take them out on the town later on. Houston had loved those ivory-white bucks. To keep them white, he’d powdered them with talc. And now? Abandoned to the tide. “Is this a military base?” he asked. They were in some kind of development of cheap little pink and blue dwellings. “These are bungalows,” the bum said. “Hey,” Houston said to their companion. “What is your name, man?” “I’ll never tell,” the bum said. “He’s totally full of bullshit,” Kinney said. Maybe these bungalows seemed a bit slummy, but not compared with what Houston had seen in Southeast Asia. A mist of white sand covered the asphalt walkways, and as the three of them strolled under the coconut palms he could hear the surf in the distance. He’d passed through Honolulu several times, and he liked it a lot. It simmered and stank as much as any other tropical place, but it was part of the United States, and things were in good repair. Kinney checked the numbers above the doorways. “This is my buddy’s house. Let’s go around back.” Houston said, “Why don’t we just ring the doorbell?” “I don’t want to ring the doorbell. Do you want to ring the doorbell?” “Well, no, man. He ain’t my friend.” They followed Kinney around the building. At one of the back windows, where a light shone, Kinney stood on tiptoe and peered inside, then he pressed himself against the trunk of a palm tree beside the wall and said to the beach bum, “Do me a favor—tap on the screen.” “Why should I?” “I intend to surprise this guy.” “What for?” “Just do it, will you? This guy owes me money, and I want to surprise him about it.” The bum scratched his fingernails along the window screen. The light went off within. A man’s face hovered in the window frame, barely visible behind the screen. “What’s the story, Mister?” Kinney said, “Greg.” “Who’s that?” “It’s me.” “Oh, hey, man—Kinney.” “Yeah, that’s right, it’s me. You got the two-sixty?” “I didn’t see you there, man.” “You got my two-sixty?” “You just back on the island? Where you been?” “I want my two-sixty.” “Shit, man. I have a phone. Why didn’t you call?” “I wrote you we’d be pulling in the first week in June. What do you think this is? It’s the first week in June. And I want my money.” “Shit, man. I don’t have all of it.” “How much you got, Greg?” “Shit, man. I can probably get some of it.” Kinney said, “You are a lying piece of genuine shit.” From his waistband he pulled a blue-steel .45 automatic and aimed it at the man, and the man dropped like a puppet with its strings cut and disappeared. Right at that time Houston heard an explosion. He tried to understand where this noise had come from, to find some explanation for it other than that Kinney had just shot this man in the chest. “Come on, come on,” Kinney said. There was a hole through the window screen. “Houston!” “What?” “We’re done. We’re going.” “We are?” Houston couldn’t feel his own feet. He moved along as if on wheels. They passed houses, parked vehicles, buildings. Now traffic surrounded them. They’d come a long way in what seemed like three or four seconds. He was out of breath and sopped with sweat. The crazy bum said, “That’s pretty nifty, man. I think you won that conversation.” “I don’t forgive my debtors. I don’t forgive those who have trespassed against me.” “I gotta go.” “Yeah, I bet you gotta go, you stupid fuck.” “Where are we?” Houston said. The bum was moving at a tangent now, off the sidewalk, into the street. “Hey. I don’t like your face,” Kinney said as the guy left. “You crazy treacherous coward.” “What?” the guy said. “Listen, don’t fuck with me.” “Don’t fuck with you?” “I think that’s my bus,” the guy said, and sprinted across the street through squealing traffic and got behind the cover of a bus. Kinney shouted, “Hey! Marine! Yeah! Fuck you! Semper Fi!” Houston doubled up and vomited all over a mailbox. Kinney didn’t look right. A greasy film covered his eyes. He said, “Let’s get a drink. Have you ever had a depth charger? Shot of bourbon in a mug of beer?” “Yeah.” “I could use a bellyful of them bastards.” “Yeah, yeah,” Houston said. They found a place with air-conditioning, and Kinney got the two of them set up with beers and shots in a booth in the darkness at the back and began preparing depth chargers. “This’ll put some torque in your pork. Ever had one of these?” “Sure—you drop a shot in a beer.” “Ever had one?” “Well, I just know how you make one,” Houston said. Without any sense of the intervening hours, Houston awakened sweaty and all bitten up by mosquitoes and sand fleas, a sagging mattress swallowing him alive, a headache pounding against his skull. He could hear the surf pounding, also. His first fully conscious thought was that he’d seen one man shoot another man, just like that. He seemed to be quartered in some kind of open-air bedroom. He made his way to the faucet in the corner, where he drank deeply of the sweet water and peed, first removing from the sink a wet bedsheet with a large black-rimmed hole burned in its middle. He found his watch, wallet, pants, and shirt, but he’d lost his shoes on the beach, he now remembered, and he was pretty sure he’d left his kit bag at the Y. His seventeen-cent zoris seemed to have walked off on their own. His wallet held a five and two ones. He collected ninety cents in coins scattered on the bamboo floor. He stepped out to get his bearings. His head swam. The water he’d gorged on was making him drunk all over again. The sign said “King Kane Hotel,” and it said “Sailors Welcome.” He kept an eye out for Kinney, but he didn’t see anyone at all, not a living soul. It was like a desert island. Palms, the bright beach, the dark ocean. He headed away from the beach, toward town. He didn’t return to the Bonners Ferry. He had no intention of getting anywhere near her berth, or anywhere else that he might run into Kinney, the last person he wanted to see. He missed the sailing and spent two weeks ashore without liberty, sleeping on the beach and eating once per day at a Baptist mission on the waterfront, until he was confident that Kinney was closer to Hong Kong than to Honolulu. Then he turned himself in to the Shore Patrol for a week’s recuperation in the brig. His rate was rolled back to E-3 and he was a seaman again, which meant that he automatically lost his boilerman rating. This was the second demotion of his career. The first had resulted from “repeated minor infractions” during his tour at Subic Bay Naval Base, in the Philippines—after he’d taken to the warrens of vice outside its gates. Houston spent the following eighteen months assigned to grunt work and garbage detail on the base in Yokosuka, Japan, mostly with rowdy black men, low-aptitude morons, and worthless bust-outs like him. More often than he liked, he remembered the admiral in Honolulu who’d lowered the window of his white Ford Galaxie and promised, “Hard times are coming.” 
Faith She was a difficult woman, had been a willful child, a moody, recalcitrant girl given to flashes of temper; severity and suspicion came later. People didn’t always know what they were doing, Hester liked to point out, readily speaking her mind, which she did most often to her brother, Bartholomew. She was forty-two now, he three years younger. She hadn’t married, had never wanted to. There was a history here: of Hester’s influence while the two grew up together in crowded accommodation above a bread shop in a respectable Dublin neighborhood. Their father was a clerk in Yarruth’s timber yards, their mother took in sewing and crocheting. They were poor Protestants, modest behind trim net curtains in Maunder Street, with pride in their religion, in being themselves. Her bounden duty, Hester called it, looking after Bartholomew. When the time came, Bartholomew didn’t marry, either. An intense, serious young man, newly ordained into the Church of Ireland, he loved Sally Carbery and was accepted when he proposed. Necessarily a lengthy one, the engagement weathered the delay, but on the eve of the wedding it fell apart, which was a disappointment Bartholomew did not recover from. Sally Carbery—spirited and humorous, a source of strength during their friendship, beautiful in her way—married a man in Jacob’s Biscuits. Hester worked for the Gas Board, and gave that up to look after her father when he became a widower, suffering from Parkinson’s disease for the last nine years of his life. That was her way; it was her nature, people said, compensation for her brusque manner. Her sacrifice was applauded. “We’ve always got on,” Hester said on the evening of their father’s funeral. “You and I have, Bartholomew.” He didn’t disagree, but knew that there was something missing in how his sister put this. They got on because, dutiful in turn, he saw to it that they did. Bartholomew’s delicate good looks—fair hair, blue eyes—made the most of a family likeness that was less pleasing in Hester, his lithe ranginess cumbersome in a woman. All in all—it seemed only right that there should be adjustment, that any efforts made in the question of getting on should be his, and without acknowledgment. Bartholomew didn’t have a parish of his own. He assisted in one on the north side of the city, where Maunder Street was, too: visiting the elderly, concerned with Youth Reach and Youth Action and the running of the Youth Centre, on Saturdays taking parties of children to ramble in the Dublin mountains or to swim in one of the north side’s swimming pools. He and Hester shared the family possessions when it was clearly no longer practical to retain the rented accommodation above the bread shop; Bartholomew found a room in the parish where he worked; Hester looked about for one. She made inquiries at the Gas Board about returning to a position similar to the one she had filled in the past, but for the moment there was nothing. Then she discovered Oscarey. It was a townland in the Wicklow mountains, remote and bleak, once distinguished by the thriving presence of Oscarey House, of which no trace now remained. But the church that late in the house’s existence had been built on the back avenue, for the convenience of the family and its followers, was still standing; and the estate’s scattering of dwellings—the houndsman’s and its yard and kennels, the gamekeeper’s, the estate agent’s pebble-dashed house—had undergone renovation and were all occupied. There was a Spar food store at Oscarey crossroads, an Esso petrol pump; letters could be posted a few miles away. Bartholomew drove his sister to Oscarey when she asked him to. They went on a Monday, which was his free day, leaving early in the morning to avoid the Dublin traffic. He didn’t know the purpose of their journey, hadn’t yet been told, but Hester quite often didn’t reveal her intentions, and he knew that eventually she would. It didn’t occur to him to make the connection he might have. “There’s a man called Flewett,” Hester said in the car, reading the name from her own handwriting on a scrap of paper. “He’ll tell us.” “What, though, Hester?” She said then—a little, not much, not everything. The small church at Oscarey that had served a purpose in the past was being talked about again. A deprived Church of Ireland community, among it the descendants of indoor servants, gardeners, and estate workers, was without a convenient means of worship. A consecrated building was moldering through disuse. They drove through Blessington, Bartholomew’s very old A-30 van—used mainly for his Saturday trips to the mountains—making a tinny sound he hadn’t noticed before. He didn’t mention it but went on, hoping it was nothing much. “It came to me,” Hester said. “Who’s Flewett, though?” “One of the people around.” She didn’t say how she had heard about this man or offer further information about him. “We’ll see what Mr. Flewett has to say,” she said. Conversation with Hester was often like that; Bartholomew was used to it. Details withheld or frugally proffered made the most of what was imparted, as if to imbue communication with greater interest. Strangers sometimes assumed this to be so, only to realize a little later that Hester was not in the least concerned with such pandering; it was simply a quirk—without a purpose—that caused her to complicate conversation in this manner. She didn’t know where it came from and did not ever wonder. “What d’you think?” Bartholomew asked the man at the garage where he stopped for petrol, and the man said the tinny noise could be anything. “Would you rev the engine for me?” he suggested, opening the bonnet when he’d finished at the petrol pump. “Give her the full throttle, sir,” he instructed, and then, “D’you know what I’m going to tell you, sir? The old carburetor in this one’s a bit shook. Ease her down now, sir, till we’ll take a look.” Bartholomew did so, then turned the engine off. As he understood it, the carburetor had loosened on its fixing. Adjusting a monkey wrench, the man said it would take two seconds to put right, and when it was done he wouldn’t charge for it, although Bartholomew pressed him to. “There was a line or two about Oscarey in the Gazette,” Hester said as they drove off again, referring to the magazine that was a source of Church of Ireland news. “They’re managing with a recorded service.” It was as it always had been, she was thinking, Bartholomew offering the man money when it hadn’t been asked for. The soft touch of the family, their father had called him, and used that same expression, laughing a bit, when Bartholomew first wanted to become a clergyman. But even so he hadn’t been displeased; nor had their mother, nor Hester herself. Bartholomew’s vocation suited him; it completed him, and protected him, as Hester tried to do in other ways. “Lucky I called in there,” he was saying, and Hester sensed that he had guessed by now why they were driving to Oscarey. He had put it all together, which was why he referred again to the stop at the garage, for often he didn’t want to talk about what had to be talked about, hoping that whatever it was would go away of its own accord. But this was something that shouldn’t be allowed to go away, no matter how awkward and difficult it was. “Good of him to want to help,” he said, and Hester watched a flight of rooks swirling out of a tree as they passed it. “It’s interesting, how things are,” she said. “At Oscarey.” It was still early when they arrived there, ten to eleven when Bartholomew drew up outside the Spar shop at the crossroads. “A Mr. Flewett?” he inquired at the single checkout, and was given directions. He left the main road, drove slowly in a maze of lanes. Here and there, there was a signpost. They found the church almost immediately after they turned into what had been the back avenue of Oscarey House, grown over now. There were graves but hardly what could be called a churchyard: no more than a narrow strip of land beside a path close to the church itself, running all the way around it. One of the graves, without a headstone, was more recent than the others. The church was tiny, built of dark, almost black stone that gave it a forbidding air. “A chapel of ease it might have been,” Bartholomew said. “Mr. Flewett’ll know all about that.” Inside, the church was musty, though with signs of use. The vases on the altar were empty, but there were hymn numbers—8, 196, 516—on the hymn board. The brass of the lectern was tarnished, and the brass of the memorial plates; the altar cloth was tattered and dingy. The slightly tinted glass of the windows—a bluish gray—did not have Biblical scenes. You couldn’t call it much of a church, Bartholomew considered, but didn’t say. “It could be lovely,” his sister said. Mr. Flewett was elderly, which Hester had predicted he would be. He was on his own these days, he said, bringing tea on a tray, with biscuits in a tin. He had been welcoming at the hall door, although he had examined his visitors closely before he invited them into his house. “We have the recording of the service, of course,” he said. “I’m in charge of that myself. Morning Prayer only.” Oscarey church was one of several in a combined benefice, the most distant being seventeen miles away. “Too far for Canon Furney, and there are a few who can’t take to the recording, so they make the journey to the Canon at Clonbyre or Nead. On the other hand, of course, there’s Mrs. Wharton’s kindness.” That took some time to explain. The small scattered community of Oscarey was a mixture now of poor and better-off: besides the remnants of the estate families, there were newcomers. Mrs. Wharton—no longer alive—had been one of the latter. Her will left her house and a considerable legacy to Oscarey church, this money to provide a stipend for a suitable incumbent, the house to become Oscarey Rectory. “That’s what this is about,” Mr. Flewett went on, pouring more tea. Hester nodded. “I heard something like it,” she said. “That perhaps a younger man . . .” “Indeed.” Bartholomew felt uneasy. Hester often became carried away. In the sad, grimy little church, he had understood how her imagination had been excited and still was, but the poverty of the place had a finality about it, even as the attempts to disguise its neglect had. There was no obvious way in which the impossible could be reversed. “The Church of Ireland moves slowly,” Mr. Flewett said. “I think we can agree about that. And of course Mrs. Wharton died only five months ago. But time eats away at good intentions. Her wishes must be honored. She is buried in our little graveyard.” “I think we might have noticed,” Bartholomew said. “Canon Furney is seventy-one. He’ll not retire and there’s no reason why he should. He’s a good, dear man and no one would want him to. What we fear, though, is that, when he goes, Clonbyre and Nead will be taken in with Oscarey again and Oscarey possibly abandoned, so far away we are. But Mrs.Wharton’s house would be a better rectory than the one there is now at Clonbyre, and her generosity otherwise is what the benefice is crying out for.” “You’ve been very kind, Mr. Flewett,” Bartholomew said. “It’s been interesting. But we’ve taken up your time and we mustn’t do that.” “Indeed you haven’t. No, not at all.” “I hope it all works out for you.” “All of us at Oscarey hope that.” Bartholomew stood up. He held out his hand, and then Mr. Flewett shook Hester’s hand, too. “I meant it in my letter,” he said. “Come any time. I’m always here. People will be pleased you came.” Hester nodded. She had a way sometimes of not smiling, and she didn’t now. But she nodded again, as if to make up for that. In the car Bartholomew said, “What letter?” Hester didn’t answer. Preoccupied, she stared ahead. It was February, too soon for spring, but fine. “Did you write to him, Hester?” “The little piece in the Gazette was about that woman leaving money and the house. It gave his name.” Bartholomew said nothing. His sister did things for the best; he’d always known that. It sometimes didn’t seem so, but he knew it was. “Will we have another look at the church?” she said. He drew in when they came to it. The hump of earth they’d noticed, the newest of the graves, was just beginning to green over and had been tended, the grass clipped in a rectangle around it. “I hope they know what they’re doing,” Hester said, pushing open the heavy west door. “I’d keep it locked myself.” The missionary leaflets by the collection box were smeared and dog-eared, and Bartholomew noticed now that there was bird lime on curtains that were there in place of a door to the vestry. “I’d get rid of that coconut matting,” Hester said. They didn’t stop on the way back to Dublin. Hester was quiet, as often she was, not saying anything until they were in Maunder Street. “I have eggs I could scramble,” she said then, and Bartholomew followed her through the empty rooms. “How long have you left here?” he asked, and his sister said until the end of next week. There’d been a place near Fairview Park and he asked about it. No good, she said. Drumcondra the same. “I’m sorry you’re having difficulties. I’ve kept an eye out.” “The Gas Board’ll have me back. Someone they weren’t expecting to left.” “Well, there’s that, at least.” Hester was not enthusiastic. She didn’t say, but Bartholomew knew. In the denuded kitchen, he watched while she broke the yolks of the eggs with a fork, beating them up, adding milk and butter, then sprinkling on pepper. Since their childhood he had resented, without saying it, her interference, her indignation on his behalf, her possessiveness. He had forgiven what she couldn’t help, doing so as natural in him as scorn and prickliness were in her. She had never noticed, had never been aware of how he felt. “You’d take to Oscarey,” Hester said. Before Bartholomew and his sister made their lives at Oscarey, there was an inevitability about the course of events. In private, Bartholomew did not think about what was happening in terms of Hester, considering rather that this was what had been ordained for him, that Hester’s ordering of the circumstances was part of that. Fifteen years ago, when Sally Carbery had decided against marriage at the last minute, it was because she feared Hester. She had been vague when suddenly she was doubtful, and was less truthful than she might have been. Unaware of that at the time, Bartholomew was bewildered; later he came to believe that in influencing Sally Carbery’s second thoughts Hester had, then, too, been assigned a role in the pattern conceived by a greater wisdom. “Silly,” Hester’s word for Sally Carbery had been, even before Sally Carbery and Bartholomew loved one another. The Church approved the rescuing of Oscarey; and it was anticipated, as Mr. Flewett had surmised, that when old Canon Furney died the benefice of Clonbyre, Nead, and Oscarey would become one again, and that the unnecessarily spacious, drafty rectory in poor repair at Clonbyre would be abandoned in favor of a smaller, more comfortable one at Oscarey. This came about, and the manner in which human existence—seeming to be shaped by the vagaries of time and chance—was in fact obedient to a will became the subject of more than one of Bartholomew’s sermons. Verses of the Scriptures were called upon to lend credence to his conclusions, which more than anything else claimed that the mysterious would never be less than mysterious, would always be there, at the heart of spiritual life. That the physical presence of things, and of words and people, amounted to very little made perfect sense to Bartholomew. It did to Hester, too. Belief was part of Hester, taken for granted, a sturdy certainty that brought her confidence and allowed her to insist she must be taken as she was, allowed her to condemn as a dishonesty any concealment of personal traits. When her brother’s fourteen parishioners at Oscarey, and the twenty-seven at Clonbyre, and the eleven at Nead came to know her, there was agreement—as elsewhere there had often been before—that she and Bartholomew were far from alike. None among the parishioners feared Hester as Sally Carbery had, since none possessed a fiancée’s intuition, only a stranger’s perspicacity. Sally Carbery’s fear—to do with the prospect of the future, of being more closely involved with Hester, was understandable. At Oscarey, and Clonbyre and Nead, there was only Hester as she was, a talking point because of it. As the two aged, the understanding between them that had survived the cramped conditions of Maunder Street was supported by reminiscence—the smell of fresh bread every early morning, the unexpected death of their mother, their father’s a mercilessly slow one, the two cremations at Glasnevin. Seaside photographs taken at Rush and Bettystown were in an album, visits to both grandmothers and to aunts were remembered, and hearing other generations talked about. The present was kept a little at bay: that congregations everywhere continued to dwindle, that no ground had been regained by the Church or seemed likely to be, was not often mentioned. Hester was indifferent to this. Bartholomew was increasingly a prey to melancholy, but did not let it show, to Hester or to anyone. For her part, Hester had given herself the task of restoring Oscarey church, scraping the tiled floor, washing the altar cloths, polishing the neglected pews and brass. The church was hers, she considered, for she had found it and brought life to it, making more of it than a mere outward and visible sign. It was not her way to say all was well, that because of her work everything was good; there was a presumption in that she didn’t care for, and such sentiments cloyed. But as she knelt before her brother at the altar rails, while he raised the cup or again wiped clean its rim, she knew that all this was meant to be. He was here, where he should be, and so should she, where her unyielding spirit had brought them. “The peace of God,” he ended each occasion of worship, and gave his blessing. The words were special. And her brother saying them in the hush while Hester still knelt among the few who came to Oscarey church, before the shuffling and the whispering began, was special, too. Except at weddings and the christenings that sometimes followed them, there were no young among the congregations of the three churches, and with nostalgia Bartholomew now and again remembered Youth Reach and Youth Action and the Saturday rambles to Kilmashogue and Two Rock. On Sundays, when he looked down from the pulpit at aged faces, at tired eyes, heads turned to hear him better, and when his hand was afterward shaken at the door, he sensed the hope that had flickered into life during the service: in all that was promised, in Psalm and Gospel, in his own interpretations, the end was not an end. Then—as it happened, on a Sunday night—Bartholomew with cruel suddenness was aware of a realization that made him feel as if he had been struck a blow so powerful it left him, though not in pain, without the full use of his faculties. This happened in his bedroom before he had begun to undress. The bedside light was on; he had closed the door, pulled down the two blinds, and was standing beside his bed, having just untied the laces of his shoes. For a moment, he thought he had fallen down, but he had not. He thought he could not see, but he could see. A shoe was in one hand, which brought something of reality back, and sitting down on the edge of the bed did, too. The clatter of the shoe on the linoleum when it slipped from his grasp brought more. Sensations of confusion lingered while he sat there, then were gone. “Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven . . .” His own voice made no sense, and yet went on. Afterward, Bartholomew told himself that what had occurred must surely be no more than a mood of petulance, an eruption from his half-stifled impatience with the embroidery and frills that dressed the simplicity of truth, with the invasive, sentimental stories that somehow made faith easier, and the hymns he hated. For Bartholomew, the mystery that was the source of all spiritual belief, present through catastrophe and plague and evil, was a strength now, too, and more than it had ever been. Yet there was disquiet, a stirring in his vocation that he had brought upon himself and wished he had not. Seeking guidance, he dwelt on his memories of the euphoria he had been aware of when his profession had first seemed to be chosen for him. There were no reservations then, and he searched for what it was, in himself, that had allowed his unquestioning credence. But no help came from that far-off time, and Bartholomew—not knowing what he should otherwise do—continued to visit the lonely and the sick, to repeat the Te Deum, the Creed, the Litany. He felt he should not and yet he did. Hester noticed no change in her brother, and he had told her nothing. Her own fulfillment, through him, continued, her belief undiminished, her certainties unchallenged. In her daily life all she distrusted she still distrusted. Her eye was cold, her scorn a nourishment; and then, for Hester, too, when more time had passed, there was adversity. She did not complain. “Oh, we all must die,” she said when she learned that she was to, herself, sooner than she had ever expected. A doctor whom she had hardly bothered since coming to Oscarey confirmed his first suspicions, gently taking from her the small hope he had permitted to remain since her previous visit. He told her what she had to know, and she said nothing. Afterward, alone, she did not weep; nor did she prepare her brother for what awaited both of them. But one morning, when the remains of spring and all of summer had gone, when they were sitting in warm September sunshine in their small garden, she told him. Hester was not yet sixty then. Bartholomew listened with incredulous dismay. Yet Hester spoke so fearlessly, accepting as her due a simple fact, that a display of emotion on his part seemed out of place. Her tone was casual, her clasped hands still, her eyes unflinching. She did not ask for pity, she never had. The next remark she made was about their continuing Indian summer. “I’m sorry,” Bartholomew said. He didn’t know her: that thought came which never had before. Her severity, the outspokenness that was natural to her, told too little. She had saved him from Sally Carbery, she would have said, believing that was the honest way to put it. He’d known in childhood that she wasn’t liked. He had tried to make it up to her, and was glad now that he had. But shadowing these reflections, and belittling them, was what Hester bore so stoically. It stalked the past, and was in charge of all the time that now was left. And yet, for Bartholomew, his own trouble was the greater agony; he could not help it that this was so, and in a familiar manner guilt began. That day he did more in the house, taking on his sister’s tasks. “What courage you have,” Bartholomew said when autumn had passed, and winter, too. Hester shook her head. Courage came with misfortune; she took no credit for it. She asked for primroses and watched while Bartholomew picked them from the bank where they grew. That night they were on her bedside table, in a glass there’d been at Maunder Street. “Why did they give me that awful name?” she asked when Bartholomew came to her later, to say good night. The name had come from somewhere outside the family; she wondered where. When Bartholomew was born, they said it was the day the Huguenots had been slaughtered in France. “I’ve brought you Ovaltine,” he said. It made her sleep, or was supposed to, but when he came with tea in the mornings he didn’t ask if she had lain awake. The nights were long. He brought the tea as early as he could. On Sundays she could no longer manage the journey to church; but messages came from the Oscarey parishioners, prayers were said for her. “O Lord,” she imagined Bartholomew pleading on her behalf, “look down from Heaven, and relieve thy servant. . . . Look down upon her with the eyes of thy mercy. . . . Give her comfort and sure confidence in thee.” This was the form she preferred; and she knew as she lay in her bed in the stillness of the rectory that these were the words said. Bartholomew wondered if, afterward, he would want to go away; if, without her, his own misfortune would be a desolation he could not bear. Back to the north side, he thought, which he knew better than the rest of Dublin. There would be employment of some kind: of any kind, he didn’t much mind what, provided only that he was capable of whatever it was. He wondered about helping in one of the shops or a bed-and-breakfast house. Middle-aged now, the youths he had worked among might be able at least to find him something, if not employ him. And yet it seemed ridiculous that he should even consider such a dramatic move. He knew he would remain and be silent. “How tidy it is!” Hester murmured. “Living for your while, then not being there anymore. How well arranged!” There was contentment in how she put it, and in her tone. Bartholomew sensed that, and, concerned with her again rather than with himself, he was pleased. His deception of her and of his scanty congregations would one day assault his conscience, would one day make continuing impossible, but at least she would not have to know. When the time came, Hester knew that she would die that night. Bartholomew was with her. There was no sentiment, she didn’t speak, and Bartholomew sensed that there suddenly was only pain. God’s will, he knew, was what she repeated to herself, as she had since she’d realized her illness was a visitation that would end only as it was ending now. The intensity of her faith, the sureness of her trust, was unaffected by the pain she suffered, and he prayed that she would close her eyes and die. Yet she did not, and Bartholomew telephoned to request that more morphine should be brought. “No, I can manage,” she whispered, hearing this plea, although he had made it in another room. No doctor was available; a message had had to be left. “Soon,” Hester said, her voice just audible, no more. “It will be soon.” She asked for Communion then. Outside, a frost had stayed all that day and, icing over now, still whitened the small garden, the patch of grass, the fields beyond. Bartholomew stood by the window, watching another dusk becoming dark, wishing there was not now, unknown to her, a gulf between them. Her courage was her belief, a dignity in her need, her eternal life already lit, its stately angels waiting to take her to the mansions of their paradise, and choral voices singing. When Bartholomew returned to the bedside, she was quiet. Then she spoke incomprehensibly. She winced, her closed eyes tightening, her head jerking on the pillow; and he went again to the telephone. “Please,” he begged. “Please.” But there was still a message. He said a little more, whispering now, the desperation in his voice concealed. Outside, a blackbird, tame in the garden, scratched at the frost. “Hester,” he said, again beside her, and there was no response; he had not expected one. She would die and still be here and nowhere else; in his dissent he could not escape that. “There will be nothing,” he might have said, and wanted to share with her his anguish, as she shared the ordeal of death with him. “Hester,” he murmured. She turned away, shuddering off a convulsion as best she could, but another came and she was restless. Confused, she tried to sit up, and he eased her back to the pillows. For a moment then her eyes were clear, her contorted features loosened and were calm. Bartholomew knew that pain was taken from her and that she shed, in this first moment of her eternity, her too long, gnawing discontent; that peace, elusive for a lifetime, had come at last. He reached out for her hand and felt it warm in his. “Thank you,” he thought she said, but knew she had not. He gazed a little longer at the dead features before he drew the sheet up. He made the telephone calls that were necessary, cancelling the message that requested morphine, informing an undertaker. He tidied the room, clearing away medicine, a cup and saucer. He sat downstairs, close to the fire, for it was colder now. He remembered days there had been, and Maunder Street, the games they played in the back yard the afternoon Hester took him into the Botanic Gardens, another time to see a band going by in the streets. Bartholomew watched the fire become embers, not taking anything to eat, disturbed by no one. That night he slept fitfully and woke often, his sister’s death entangled in his dreams with his own deprivation. He woke often, and soon after dawn he went to Hester’s room. When he drew down the sheet the moment of calm was still caught in her features. He stayed with her, the mercy of her tranquillity seeming to be a miracle that was real, as it had been in the instant of death. Heaven enough, and more than angels. 
PUPPY Twice already Marie had pointed out the brilliance of the autumnal sun on the perfect field of corn, because the brilliance of the autumnal sun on the perfect field of corn put her in mind of a haunted house—not a haunted house she had ever actually seen but the mythical one that sometimes appeared in her mind (with adjacent graveyard and cat on a fence) whenever she saw the brilliance of the autumnal sun on the perfect etc. etc., and she wanted to make sure that, if the kids had a corresponding mythical haunted house that appeared in their minds whenever they saw the brilliance of the etc. etc., it would come up now, so that they could all experience it together, like friends, like college friends on a road trip, sans pot, ha ha ha! But no. When she, a third time, said, “Wow, guys, check that out,” Abbie said, “O.K., Mom, we get it, it’s corn,” and Josh said, “Not now, Mom, I’m Leavening my Loaves,” which was fine with her; she had no problem with that, Noble Baker being preferable to Bra Stuffer, the game he’d asked for. Well, who could say? Maybe they didn’t even have any mythical vignettes in their heads. Or maybe the mythical vignettes they had in their heads were totally different from the ones she had in her head. Which was the beauty of it, because, after all, they were their own little people! You were just a caretaker. They didn’t have to feel what you felt; they just had to be supported in feeling what they felt. Still, wow, that cornfield was such a classic. “Whenever I see a field like that, guys?” she said. “I somehow think of a haunted house!” “Slicing Knife! Slicing Knife!” Josh shouted. “You nimrod machine! I chose that!” Speaking of Halloween, she remembered last year, when their cornstalk column had tipped their shopping cart over. Gosh, how they’d laughed at that! Oh, family laughter was golden; she’d had none of that in her childhood, Dad being so dour and Mom so ashamed. If Mom and Dad’s cart had tipped, Dad would have given the cart a despairing kick and Mom would have stridden purposefully away to reapply her lipstick, distancing herself from Dad, while she, Marie, would have nervously taken that horrid plastic Army man she’d named Brady into her mouth. Well, in this family laughter was encouraged! Last night, when Josh had goosed her with his GameBoy, she’d shot a spray of toothpaste across the mirror and they’d all cracked up, rolling around on the floor with Goochie, and Josh had said, such nostalgia in his voice, “Mom, remember when Goochie was a puppy?” Which was when Abbie had burst into tears, because, being only five, she had no memory of Goochie as a puppy. Hence this Family Mission. And as far as Robert? Oh, God bless Robert! There was a man. He would have no problem whatsoever with this Family Mission. She loved the way he had of saying “Ho HO!” whenever she brought home something new and unexpected. “Ho HO!” Robert had said, coming home to find the iguana. “Ho HO!” he had said, coming home to find the ferret trying to get into the iguana cage. “We appear to be the happy operators of a menagerie!” She loved him for his playfulness—you could bring home a hippo you’d put on a credit card (both the ferret and the iguana had gone on credit cards) and he’d just say “Ho HO!” and ask what the creature ate and what hours it slept and what the heck they were going to name the little bugger. In the back seat, Josh made the git-git-git sound he always made when his Baker was in Baking Mode, trying to get his Loaves into the oven while fighting off various Hungry Denizens, such as a Fox with a distended stomach; such as a fey Robin that would improbably carry the Loaf away, speared on its beak, whenever it had succeeded in dropping a Clonking Rock on your Baker—all of which Marie had learned over the summer by studying the Noble Baker manual while Josh was asleep. And it had helped, it really had. Josh was less withdrawn lately, and when she came up behind him now while he was playing and said, like, “Wow, honey, I didn’t know you could do Pumpernickel,” or “Sweetie, try Serrated Blade, it cuts quicker. Try it while doing Latch the Window,” he would reach back with his non-controlling hand and swat at her affectionately, and yesterday they’d shared a good laugh when he’d accidentally knocked off her glasses. So her mother could go right ahead and claim that she was spoiling the kids. These were not spoiled kids. These were well-loved kids. At least she’d never left one of them standing in a blizzard for two hours after a junior-high dance. At least she’d never drunkenly snapped at one of them, “I hardly consider you college material.” At least she’d never locked one of them in a closet (a closet!) while entertaining a literal ditchdigger in the parlor. Oh, God, what a beautiful world! The autumn colors, that glinting river, that lead-colored cloud pointing down like a rounded arrow at that half-remodelled McDonald’s standing above I-90 like a castle. This time would be different, she was sure of it. The kids would care for this pet themselves, since a puppy wasn’t scaly and didn’t bite. (“Ho HO!” Robert had said the first time the iguana bit him. “I see you have an opinion on the matter!”) Thank you, Lord, she thought, as the Lexus flew through the cornfield. You have given me so much: struggles and the strength to overcome them; grace, and new chances every day to spread that grace around. And in her mind she sang out, as she sometimes did when feeling that the world was good and she had at last found her place in it, “Ho HO, ho HO!” Callie pulled back the blind. Yes. Awesome. It was still solved so perfect. There was plenty for him to do back there. A yard could be a whole world, like her yard when she was a kid had been a whole world. From the three holes in her wood fence she’d been able to see Exxon (Hole One) and Accident Corner (Hole Two), and Hole Three was actually two holes that if you lined them up right your eyes would do this weird crossing thing and you could play Oh My God I Am So High by staggering away with your eyes crossed, going “Peace, man, peace.” When Bo got older, it would be different. Then he’d need his freedom. But now he just needed not to get killed. Once they found him way over on Testament. And that was across I-90. How had he crossed I-90? She knew how. Darted. That’s how he crossed streets. Once a total stranger called them from Hightown Plaza. Even Dr. Brile had said it: “Callie, this boy is going to end up dead if you don’t get this under control. Is he taking the medication?” Well, sometimes he was and sometimes he wasn’t. The meds made him grind his teeth and his fist would suddenly pound down. He’d broken plates that way, and once a glass tabletop and got four stitches in his wrist. Today he didn’t need the medication because he was safe in the yard, because she’d fixed it so perfect. He was out there practicing pitching by filling his Yankees helmet with pebbles and winging them at the tree. He looked up and saw her and did the thing where he blew a kiss. Sweet little man. Now all she had to worry about was the pup. She hoped the lady who’d called would actually show up. It was a nice pup. White, with brown around one eye. Cute. If the lady showed up, she’d definitely want it. And if she took it Jimmy was off the hook. He’d hated doing it that time with the kittens. But if no one took the pup he’d do it. He’d have to. Because his feeling was, when you said you were going to do a thing and didn’t do it, that was how kids got into drugs. Plus, he’d been raised on a farm, or near a farm anyways, and anybody raised on a farm knew that you had to do what you had to do in terms of sick animals or extra animals—the pup being not sick, just extra. That time with the kittens, Jessi and Mollie had called him a murderer, getting Bo all worked up, and Jimmy had yelled, “Look, you kids, I was raised on a farm and you got to do what you got to do!” Then he’d cried in bed, saying how the kittens had mewed in the bag all the way to the pond, and how he wished he’d never been raised on a farm, and she’d almost said, “You mean near a farm” (his dad had run a car wash outside Cortland), but sometimes when she got too smart-assed he would do this hard pinching thing on her arm while waltzing her around the bedroom, as if the place where he was pinching were like her handle, going, “I’m not sure I totally heard what you just said to me.” So, that time after the kittens, she’d only said, “Oh, honey, you did what you had to do.” And he’d said, “I guess I did, but it’s sure not easy raising kids the right way.” And then, because she hadn’t made his life harder by being a smart-ass, they had lain there making plans, like why not sell this place and move to Arizona and buy a car wash, why not buy the kids “Hooked on Phonics,” why not plant tomatoes, and then they’d got to wrestling around and (she had no idea why she remembered this) he had done this thing of, while holding her close, bursting this sudden laugh/despair snort into her hair, like a sneeze, or like he was about to start crying. Which had made her feel special, him trusting her with that. So what she would love, for tonight? Was getting the pup sold, putting the kids to bed early, and then, Jimmy seeing her as all organized in terms of the pup, they could mess around and afterward lie there making plans, and he could do that laugh/snort thing in her hair again. Why that laugh/snort meant so much to her she had no freaking idea. It was just one of the weird things about the Wonder That Was Her, ha ha ha. Outside, Bo hopped to his feet, suddenly curious, because (here we go) the lady who’d called had just pulled up? Yep, and in a nice car, too, which meant too bad she’d put “Cheap” in the ad. Abbie squealed, “I love it, Mommy, I want it!,” as the puppy looked up dimly from its shoebox and the lady of the house went trudging away and one-two-three-four plucked up four dog turds from the rug. Well, wow, what a super field trip for the kids, Marie thought, ha ha (the filth, the mildew smell, the dry aquarium holding the single encyclopedia volume, the pasta pot on the bookshelf with an inflatable candy cane inexplicably sticking out of it), and although some might have been disgusted (by the spare tire on the dining-room table, by the way the glum mother dog, the presumed in-house pooper, was dragging its rear over the pile of clothing in the corner, in a sitting position, splay-legged, a moronic look of pleasure on her face), Marie realized (resisting the urge to rush to the sink and wash her hands, in part because the sink had a basketball in it) that what this really was was deeply sad. Please do not touch anything, please do not touch, she said to Josh and Abbie, but just in her head, wanting to give the children a chance to observe her being democratic and accepting, and afterward they could all wash up at the half-remodelled McDonald’s, as long as they just please please kept their hands out of their mouths, and God forbid they should rub their eyes. The phone rang, and the lady of the house plodded into the kitchen, placing the daintily held, paper-towel-wrapped turds on the counter. “Mommy, I want it,” Abbie said. “I will definitely walk him like twice a day,” Josh said. “Don’t say ‘like,’ ” Marie said. “I will definitely walk him twice a day,” Josh said. O.K., then, all right, they would adopt a white-trash dog. Ha ha. They could name it Zeke, buy it a little corncob pipe and a straw hat. She imagined the puppy, having crapped on the rug, looking up at her, going, Cain’t hep it. But no. Had she come from a perfect place? Everything was transmutable. She imagined the puppy grown up, entertaining some friends, speaking to them in a British accent: My family of origin was, um, rather not, shall we say, of the most respectable . . . Ha ha, wow, the mind was amazing, always cranking out these— Marie stepped to the window and, anthropologically pulling the blind aside, was shocked, so shocked that she dropped the blind and shook her head, as if trying to wake herself, shocked to see a young boy, just a few years younger than Josh, harnessed and chained to a tree, via some sort of doohickey by which—she pulled the blind back again, sure she could not have seen what she thought she had— When the boy ran, the chain spooled out. He was running now, looking back at her, showing off. When he reached the end of the chain, it jerked and he dropped as if shot. He rose to a sitting position, railed against the chain, whipped it back and forth, crawled to a bowl of water, and, lifting it to his lips, took a drink: a drink from a dog’s bowl. Josh joined her at the window. She let him look. He should know that the world was not all lessons and iguanas and Nintendo. It was also this muddy simple boy tethered like an animal. She remembered coming out of the closet to find her mother’s scattered lingerie and the ditchdigger’s metal hanger full of orange flags. She remembered waiting outside the junior high in the bitter cold, the snow falling harder, as she counted over and over to two hundred, promising herself each time that when she reached two hundred she would begin the long walk back— God, she would have killed for just one righteous adult to confront her mother, shake her, and say, “You idiot, this is your child, your child you’re—” “So what were you guys thinking of naming him?” the woman said, coming out of the kitchen. The cruelty and ignorance just radiated from her fat face, with its little smear of lipstick. “I’m afraid we won’t be taking him after all,” Marie said coldly. Such an uproar from Abbie! But Josh—she would have to praise him later, maybe buy him the Italian Loaves Expansion Pak—hissed something to Abbie, and then they were moving out through the trashed kitchen (past some kind of crankshaft on a cookie sheet, past a partial red pepper afloat in a can of green paint) while the lady of the house scuttled after them, saying, wait, wait, they could have it for free, please take it—she really wanted them to have it. No, Marie said, it would not be possible for them to take it at this time, her feeling being that one really shouldn’t possess something if one wasn’t up to properly caring for it. “Oh,” the woman said, slumping in the doorway, the scrambling pup on one shoulder. Out in the Lexus, Abbie began to cry softly, saying, “Really, that was the perfect pup for me.” And it was a nice pup, but Marie was not going to contribute to a situation like this in even the smallest way. Simply was not going to do it. The boy came to the fence. If only she could have said to him, with a single look, Life will not necessarily always be like this. Your life could suddenly blossom into something wonderful. It can happen. It happened to me. But secret looks, looks that conveyed a world of meaning with their subtle blah blah blah—that was all bullshit. What was not bullshit was a call to Child Welfare, where she knew Linda Berling, a very no-nonsense lady who would snatch this poor kid away so fast it would make that fat mother’s thick head spin. Callie shouted, “Bo, back in a sec!,” and, swiping the corn out of the way with her non-pup arm, walked until there was nothing but corn and sky. It was so small it didn’t move when she set it down, just sniffed and tumped over. Well, what did it matter, drowned in a bag or starved in the corn? This way Jimmy wouldn’t have to do it. He had enough to worry about. The boy she’d first met with hair to his waist was now this old man shrunk with worry. As far as the money, she had sixty hidden away. She’d give him twenty of that and go, “The people who bought the pup were super-nice.” Don’t look back, don’t look back, she said in her head as she raced away through the corn. Then she was walking along Teallback Road like a sportwalker, like some lady who walked every night to get slim, except that she was nowhere near slim, she knew that, and she also knew that when sportwalking you did not wear jeans and unlaced hiking boots. Ha ha! She wasn’t stupid. She just made bad choices. She remembered Sister Carol saying, “Callie, you are bright enough but you incline toward that which does not benefit you.” Yep, well, Sister, you got that right, she said to the nun in her mind. But what the hell. What the heck. When things got easier moneywise, she’d get some decent tennis shoes and start walking and get slim. And start night school. Slimmer. Maybe medical technology. She was never going to be really slim. But Jimmy liked her the way she was, and she liked him the way he was, which maybe that’s what love was, liking someone how he was and doing things to help him get even better. Like right now she was helping Jimmy by making his life easier by killing something so he—no. All she was doing was walking, walking away from— Pushing the words killing puppy out of her head, she put in her head the words beautiful sunny day wow I’m loving this beautiful sunny day so much— What had she just said? That had been good. Love was liking someone how he was and doing things to help him get better. Like Bo wasn’t perfect, but she loved him how he was and tried to help him get better. If they could keep him safe, maybe he’d mellow out as he got older. If he mellowed out, maybe he could someday have a family. Like there he was now in the yard, sitting quietly, looking at flowers. Tapping with his bat, happy enough. He looked up, waved the bat at her, gave her that smile. Yesterday he’d been stuck in the house, all miserable. He’d ended the day screaming in bed, so frustrated. Today he was looking at flowers. Who was it that thought up that idea, the idea that had made today better than yesterday? Who loved him enough to think that up? Who loved him more than anyone else in the world loved him? Her. She did. 
A Beneficiary Caches of old papers are like graves; you shouldn’t open them. Her mother had been cremated. There was no marble stone incised “Laila de Morne, born, died, actress.” She had always lied about her age; her name, too—the name she used wasn’t her natal name, too ethnically limiting to suggest her uniqueness in a cast list. It wasn’t her married name, either. She had baptized herself, professionally. She was long divorced, although only in her late fifties, when a taxi hit her car and (as she would have delivered her last line) brought down the curtain on her career. Her daughter, Charlotte, had her father’s surname and was as close to him as a child can be, when subject to an ex-husband’s conditions of access. As Charlotte grew up, she felt more compatible with him than with her mother, fond as she was of her mother’s—somehow—childishness. Perhaps acting was really a continuation of the make-believe games of childhood—fascinating, in a way. But. But what? Not a way Charlotte had wanted to follow—despite the fact that she was named after the character with which her mother had had an early success (Charlotte Corday, in Peter Weiss’s “Marat/Sade”), and despite the encouragement of drama and dance classes. Not a way she could follow, because of lack of talent: her mother’s unspoken interpretation, expressed in disappointment, if not reproach. Laila de Morne had not committed herself to any lover, had not gone so far as to marry again. There was no stepfather to confuse relations, loyalties; Charlie (as her father called her) could remark to him, “Why should she expect me to take after her?” Her father was a neurologist. They laughed together at any predestinatory prerogative of her mother’s, or the alternative paternal one—to be expected to become a doctor! Poking around in people’s brains? They nudged each other with more laughter at the daughter’s distaste. Her father helped arrange the memorial gathering, in place of a funeral service, sensitive as always to any need of his daughter’s. She certainly didn’t expect or want him to come along to his ex-wife’s apartment and sort the clothes, personal possessions to be kept or given away. A friend from the firm where she worked as an actuary agreed to help for a weekend. Unexpectedly, the young civil-rights lawyer with whom there had been a sensed mutual attraction, taken no further than dinner and a cinema date, also offered himself—perhaps a move toward the love affair that was coming anyway. The girls emptied the cupboards of clothes, the friend exclaiming over the elaborate range of styles women of that generation wore, how many personalities they could project—as if they had been able to choose, when now you belonged to the outfit of jeans and T-shirt. Oh, of course! Charlotte’s mother was a famous actress! Charlotte did not correct this, out of respect for her mother’s ambitions. But when she went to the next room, where the lawyer was arranging chronologically the press cuttings and programs and photographs of Laila in the roles for which the wardrobe had provided, she turned over a few programs and remarked, more to be overheard by him than to him, “Never really had the leads she believed she should have had, after the glowing notices of her promise, very young. When she murdered Marat. In his bathtub, wasn’t it? I’ve never seen the play.” Confiding the truth of her mother’s career, betraying Laila’s idea of herself—perhaps also a move toward a love affair. The three young people broke out of the trappings of the past for coffee and their concerns of the present. What sort of court cases does a civil-rights lawyer take on? What did he mean by “not the usual litigation”? No robberies or hijackings? Did the two young women feel that they were discriminated against? Did the plum jobs go to males? Or was it the other way around—did bad conscience over gender discrimination mean that women were now elevated to positions they weren’t really up to? Women of any color, and black men—same thing? What would have been a sad and strange task for Charlotte alone became a lively evening, an animated exchange of opinions and experiences. Laila surely would not have disapproved; she had stimulated her audience. There was a Sunday evening at a jazz club, sharing enthusiasm and a boredom with hip-hop, Kwaito. After another evening, dinner and dancing together—that first bodily contact to confirm attraction—he offered to help again with her task, and on a weekend afternoon they kissed and touched among the stacks of clothes and boxes of theatre souvenirs, his hand brimming with her breast, but did not proceed, as would have been natural, to the beautiful and inviting bed, with its signature of draped shawls and cushions. Some atavistic taboo, a notion of respect for the dead—as if her mother still lay there in possession. The love affair found a bed elsewhere and continued uncertainly, pleasurably enough but without much expectation of commitment. A one-act piece begun among the props of a supporting-part career. Charlotte brushed aside any offers, from him or from her office friend, to continue with the sorting of Laila’s—what? The clothes were packed up. Some seemed wearable only in the context of a theatrical wardrobe and were given to an experimental-theatre group; others went to the Salvation Army, for distribution to the homeless. Her father arranged with an estate agent to advertise the apartment for sale; unless you want to move in, he suggested. But it was too big; Charlie couldn’t afford to, didn’t want to, live in a style not her own, even rent-free. They laughed again in their understanding, not in criticism of her mother. Laila was Laila. He agreed, but as if thinking of some other aspect of her. Yes, Laila. The movers came to take the furniture to be sold. She half thought of inheriting the bed; it would have been luxurious to flop diagonally across its generosity, but she wouldn’t have been able to get it past the bedroom door in her small flat. When the men departed with their loads, there were pale shapes on the floor where everything had stood. She opened windows to let out the dust and, turning back suddenly, saw that something had been left behind. A couple of empty boxes, the cardboard ones used for supermarket delivery. Irritated, she went to gather them. One wasn’t empty; it seemed to be filled with letters. What makes you keep some letters and not others? In her own comparatively short life, she’d thrown away giggly schoolgirl stuff, sexy propositions scribbled on the backs of menus, once naïvely found flattering, a polite letter of rejection in response to an application for a job beyond her qualifications—a salutary lesson on what her set called the real world. This box apparently contained memorabilia that was different from the stuff already dealt with. The envelopes had the look of personal letters: hand-addressed, without the printed logos of businesses, banks. Had Laila had a personal life that wasn’t related to her family-the-theatre? One child, the product of divorced parents, hardly counts as “family.” Charlotte—that was the identity she had in any context relating to her mother—sifted through the envelopes. If her mother had had a personal life, it was not a material possession to be disposed of like garments taken on and off; a personal life can’t be “left to” a daughter, like a beneficiary in a will. Whatever letters Laila had chosen to keep were still hers; best to quietly burn them, as Laila herself had been consumed, sending them to join her. They say (she had read somewhere) that no one ever disappears, up in the atmosphere, stratosphere, whatever you call space—atoms infinitely minute, beyond conception of existence, are up there forever, from the whole world, from all time. As she shook this one box which was not empty, so that the contents would settle and not spill when it was lifted, she noticed some loose sheets of writing paper lying face down. Not held in the privacy of an envelope. She picked them out, turned them face up. Her father’s handwriting, more deliberately formed than Charlie knew it. What was the date at the top of the page, under the address of the house she remembered as home when she was a small girl? A date twenty-four years back. Of course, his handwriting had changed a bit; it does with different stages in one’s life. His Charlie was twenty-eight now, so she would have been four years old when he wrote that date. It must have been just before the divorce and her move to a new home with Laila. The letter was formally addressed, on the upper left-hand side of the paper, to a firm of lawyers, Kaplan McLeod & Partners, and directed to one of them in particular: “Dear Hamish.” Why on earth would Laila want to keep from a dead marriage the sort of business letter that a neurologist might have to write to a legal firm—on some question of a car accident maybe, or the nonpayment of some patient’s consultation fee or surgery charges. (As if her father’s medical and human ethics would ever have led him to the latter. . . .) The pages must have got mixed up with the other, truly personal material at some time. Laila and Charlotte had changed apartments frequently during Charlotte’s childhood and adolescence. The letter was marked “Copy”: “My wife, Laila de Morne, is an actress and, in the course of pursuing her career, has moved in a circle independent of one shared by a couple in marriage. I have always encouraged her to take the opportunities, through contacts she might make, to further her talent. She is a very attractive woman, and it was obvious to me that I should have to accept that there would be men, certainly among her fellow-actors, who would want to be more than admirers. But while she enjoyed the attention, and sometimes responded with a general kind of social flirtation, I had no reason to see this as a more than natural pleasure in her own looks and talents. She would make fun of these admirers, privately, with sharp remarks on their appearance, their pretensions, and, if they were actors, directors, or playwrights, on the quality of their work. I knew that I had not married a woman who would want to stay home and nurse babies, but from time to time she would bring up the subject. We ought to have a son, she said, for me. Then she would get a new part in a play and the idea was understandably postponed. After a successful start, her career was, however, not advancing to her expectations. She did not succeed in getting several roles that she had confidently anticipated. She came home elated one night and told me that she had been accepted for a small part in a play overseas, in the Edinburgh Fringe Festival. She had been selected because the leading actor himself, Rendall Harris, had told the casting director that she was the most talented of the young women in the theatre group. I was happy for her, and we gave a farewell party at our house the night before the cast left for the United Kingdom. After Edinburgh, she spent some time in London, calling to say how wonderful and necessary it was for her to experience what was happening in theatre there and, I gathered, trying her luck in auditions. Apparently unsuccessfully. “Perhaps she intended not to come back. But she did. A few weeks later, she told me that she had just been to a gynecologist and confirmed that she was pregnant. I was moved. I took the unlikely luck of conception—I’d assumed, when we made love on the night of the party, that she’d taken the usual precautions; we weren’t drunk, even if she was triumphant—as a symbol of what would be a change in our perhaps unsuitable marriage. I am a medical specialist, a neurological surgeon. “When the child was born, it looked like any other red-faced infant, but after several months everyone remarked how the little girl was the image of Laila, her mother. It was one Saturday afternoon, when she was kicking and flinging her arms athletically—we were admiring our baby’s progress, her beauty, and I joked, ‘Lucky she doesn’t look like me’—that my wife picked her up, away from me, and told me, ‘She’s not your child.’ She’d met someone in Edinburgh. I interrupted with angry questions. No, she prevaricated, all right, London, the affair began in London. The leading actor who had insisted on her playing the small part had introduced her to someone there. A few days later, she admitted that it was not “someone,” it was the leading actor. He was the father of our girl. She told this to other people, our friends, when through the press we heard the news that the actor, Rendall Harris, was making a name for himself in plays by Tom Stoppard and Tennessee Williams. “I couldn’t decide what to believe. I even consulted a colleague in the medical profession about the possible variations in the period of gestation in relation to birth. Apparently, it was possible that the conception had taken place with me, or with the other man a few days before or after the intercourse with me. Laila never expressed any intention of taking the child and making her life with the man. She was too proud to let anyone know that he most likely wouldn’t want her or the supposed progeny of their affair. “Laila has devoted herself to her acting career and, as a result, I have of necessity had a closer relation than is customary for the father with the care of the small girl, now four years old. I am devoted to her and can produce witnesses to support the conviction that she would be happiest in my custody. “I hope this is adequate. Let me know if anything more is needed, or if there is too much detail here. I’m accustomed to writing reports in medical jargon and thought that this should be different. I don’t suppose I’ve a hope in hell of getting Charlie; Laila will put all her dramatic skills into swearing that she isn’t mine!” That Saturday: it landed in the apartment looted by the present and filled it with blasting amazement, the presence of the past. That Saturday, coming to her just as it had come to him. Charlotte/Charlie (which was she?) received exactly as he had what Laila (yes, her mother—giving birth is proof) had told. How do you recognize something that is not in the known vocabulary of your emotions? Shock is like a ringing in the ears; to stop it, you snatch back to the first page, read the letter again. It says what it said. This sinking collapse from within, from your flared, breathless nostrils down to your breasts, stomach, legs, and hands, hands that not only feel passively but go out to grasp what can’t be. Dismay, that feeble-sounding word, has this ghastly meaning. What do you do with something you’ve been told? Something that now is there in the gut of your existence. Run to him? Thrust his letter at him, at her—but she’s out of it now, she has escaped in smoke from the crematorium. And she is the one who really knows—knew. Of course, he didn’t get custody. He was awarded the divorce, but the mother was given the four-year-old child. It is natural, particularly in the case of a small girl, for a child to live with the mother. Despite this “deposition” of his, in which he was denied paternity, he paid maintenance for the child. The expensive boarding school, the drama and dance classes, even those holidays in the Seychelles, three times in Spain, once in France, once in Greece, with the mother. Must have paid generously. He was a neurologist, more successful in his profession than the mother was on the stage. But this couldn’t have been the reason for the generosity. Charlotte/Charlie couldn’t think about that, either. She folded the two sheets, fumbled absently for the envelope they should have been in, weren’t, and with them in her hand left the boxes, the letters, Laila’s apartment locked, behind the door. He could only be asked: why he had been a father, loving. The return of his Saturday—it woke her at three, four in the morning, when she had kept it at bay through the activities of the day, work, navigating alone in her car through the city’s crush, leisure time occupied in the company of friends who hadn’t been told. She and her father had one of their regular early dinners at his favorite restaurant, went to a foreign movie by a director whose work she admires, and the news of that Saturday couldn’t be spoken, was unreal. In the dark, when the late-night traffic was over and the dawn traffic hadn’t begun: silence. The reason. He believed in the chance of conception, that one night of the party. Laila’s farewell. Even though his friend, the expert in biological medicine, had implied that if you didn’t know the stage of the woman’s fertility cycle you couldn’t be sure—the conception might have been achieved a few days before or after that unique night. I am Charlie, his. The reason. Another night thought, an angry mood: Who do they think they are, deciding who I am to suit themselves? To suit her vanity—she could, at least, bear the child of an actor with a career in the theatre that she hadn’t attained for herself. To suit his wounded macho pride—refusing to accept another male’s potency; his seed had to have been the winner. And in the morning, before the distractions of the day took over, shame, ashamed of herself, Charlie, for thinking so spitefully, cheaply about him. The next reason that offered itself was hardly less unjust—confusedly hurtful to her. He had paid one kind of maintenance, and he had paid another kind of maintenance, loving her in order to uphold the conventions before what he saw as the world—the respectable doctors in white coats who had wives to accompany them to medical-council dinners. If he had married again, it would have been to a woman like these. Laila was Laila. Never risk another. The letter that belonged to no one’s daughter was moved from place to place, to a drawer under sweaters, to an Indian box where she kept earrings and bracelets, behind books of plays—Euripides and Racine, Shaw and Brecht, Dario Fo, Miller, Artaud, Beckett, and, of course, an annotated “Marat/Sade.” Charlotte’s inheritance, never read. When you are of many minds, the contention makes someone who has been not exactly what one wanted, who doesn’t yet count, the only person to be told. In bed, yet another night, after lovemaking, when the guards were down, along with the physical tensions. Mark, the civil-rights lawyer, who acted in the mess of divorce litigation only when it infringed constitutional rights, said, in response, of the letter, “Tear it up.” When she appealed (it was not just a piece of paper): “Have a DNA test.” How to do that without taking the whole cache that was the past to the father? “Get a snip of his hair.” All that would be needed to go along with a sample of her blood. Like whoever it was in the Bible cutting off Samson’s hair. But how was she supposed to do that? Steal up on her father in his sleep somewhere? Tear it up. Easy advice from someone who had understood nothing. She did not. But a circumstance came about, as if somehow summoned. . . . Of course, it was fortuitous. . . . A distinguished actor-director had been invited by a local theatre to direct a season of classical and avant-garde plays, taking several lead roles himself. It was his first return to the country, to the city where he was born and which he had left to pursue his career—he said in newspaper interviews and on radio, television—how long ago? Oh, twenty-five years. Rendall Harris. Newspaper photographs: an actor’s expression, assumed for many cameras, handsomely enough late-middle-aged, a defiant slight twist to the mouth to emphasize character, the eyebrows raised together amusedly, a touch of white in the short sideburns. Eyes difficult to make out in newsprint. On television, alive; something of the upper body, gestures, coming into view, the closeup of his changing expressions, the deep-set long eyes, gray darkening with some deliberate intensity, almost flashing black, meeting yours, the viewer’s. What had she expected? A recognition? Hers of him? His, out of the lit-up box, of her? An actor’s performance face. She couldn’t ignore the stir at the idea that the man named by her mother was in the city. Laila was Laila. Yes. If she had not gone up in smoke, would he have met her again, remembered her? Had he ever seen the baby, who was at least two when he went off for twenty-five years? What does a two-year-old remember? Had she ever seen this man as a younger self, been taken in by those strikingly interrogative eyes, received? She was accustomed to going to the theatre with friends or with the lawyer-lover, though he preferred films, one of his limited tastes that she could at least share. Every day—every night—she thought about the theatre. Not with Mark. Not beside any of her friends. No. In a wild recurrent impulse, there was the temptation to be there with her father, who did not know that she knew, had been told, as he was that Saturday. Laila was Laila. For him and for her. She went alone when Rendall Harris was to play one of the lead roles. There had been ecstatic notices. He was Laurence Olivier reincarnated for a new—the twenty-first—century, a deconstructed style of performance. She was far back in the box-office queue when a board went up: “House Full.” She booked online for another night, an aisle seat three rows from the proscenium. At the theatre, she found herself, for some reason, hostile. Ridiculous. She wanted to disagree with the critics. That’s what it was about. Rendall Harris—how do you describe a performance that manages to create for the audience the wholeness, the life of a man, not just “in character” for the duration of the play but what he might have been before the events chosen by the playwright and how he might be, alive, continuing after? Rendall Harris was an extraordinary actor, man. Her palms were up among the hands applauding like the flight of birds rising. When he came out to take the calls, summoning the rest of the cast around him, she wasn’t in his direct sight line, as she would have been if she’d asked for a seat in the middle of the row. She went to every performance in which he was billed in the cast. A seat in the middle of the second row; the first would have been too obvious. Though she was something other than a groupie, she was among the knot of autograph-seekers one night, who hung about the foyer hoping that he might leave the theatre that way. He did appear, making for the bar with the theatre’s director, and for a moment, under the arrest of programs thrust at him, happened to encounter her eyes as she stood back from his fans—he had a smile of self-deprecating amusement, meant for anyone in his line of vision, but that one was her. The lift of his face, his walk, his repertoire of gestures, the oddities of his lapses in expression onstage that she secretly recognized as himself appearing, became almost familiar to her. As if she somehow knew him, and these intimacies knew her. Signals. If invented, they were very like conviction. At the box office, there was the routine question, “D’you have a season ticket?” She supposed that was to have been bought when the Rendall Harris engagement was first announced. She thought of a letter. Owed it to him for the impression that his performances had made on her. His command of the drama of living, the excitement of being there with him. After the fourth or fifth version in her mind, the next was written. Mailed to the theatre, it was most likely glanced through in his dressing room or at his hotel, among the other “tributes,” and would either be forgotten or taken back to London for the collection of memorabilia it seemed actors needed. But, with him, there was that wry sideways tilt to the photographed mouth. Of course, she neither expected nor received any acknowledgment. After a performance one night, she bumped into some old friends of Laila’s, actors who had come to the memorial, and who insisted on her joining them in the bar. When Rendall Harris’s unmistakable head appeared through the late crowd, they created a swift current past backs to embrace him, to draw him with their buddy, the theatre director, to a space made at the table, where she had been left among the bottles and glasses. The friends, in the excitement of having Rendall Harris among them, forgot to introduce her as Laila’s daughter, Laila who’d played Corday in that early production where he’d been Marat; perhaps they had forgotten Laila—best thing with the dead if you want to get on with your life and ignore the hazards, like that killer taxi, around you. Charlotte’s letter was no more present than the other one, behind the volumes of plays. A fresh acquaintance, just the meeting of a nobody with the famous. But not entirely, even from the famous actor’s side. As the talk lobbed back and forth, the man, sitting almost opposite her, thought it friendly, from his special level of presence, to toss something to the young woman whom no one was including, and easily found what came to mind: “Aren’t you the one who’s been sitting bang in the middle of the second row, several times lately?” And then they joined in laughter, a double confession—hers of absorbed concentration on him; his of being aware of it or at least becoming so at the sight, here, of someone out there whose attention had caught him. He asked, across the voices of the others, which plays in the repertoire she’d enjoyed most, what criticisms she had of those she didn’t think much of. He named a number that she hadn’t seen. Her response was another confession: she had seen only those in which he had played a part. When the party broke up and all were meandering their way, with stops and starts in backchat and laughter, to the foyer, a shift in progress brought Rendall Harris’s back right in front of her. He turned swiftly, as lithely as a young man, and—it must have been impulse in one accustomed to being natural, charming, in spite of his professional guard—spoke as if he had been thinking of it: “You’ve missed a lot, you know, so flattering for me, avoiding the other plays. Come some night, or there’s a Sunday-afternoon performance of a Wole Soyinka you ought to see. We’ll have a bite in the restaurant before I take you to your favorite seat. I’m particularly interested in audience reaction to the chances I’ve taken directing this play.” Rendall Harris sat beside her through the performance, now and then whispering some comment, drawing her attention to this and that. She had told him, over lasagna at lunch, that she was an actuary, a creature of calculation, that she couldn’t be less qualified to judge the art of actors’ interpretation or that of a director. “You know that’s not true.” Said with serious inattention. Tempting to believe that he sensed something in her blood, sensibility. From her mother. It was or was not the moment to tell him that she was Laila’s daughter, although she carried Laila’s husband’s name, a name that Laila was not known by. Now, what sort of a conundrum was that supposed to be? She was produced by—what was that long term?—parthenogenesis. She just growed, like Topsy? You know that’s not true. He arranged for her a seat as his guest for the rest of the repertoire in which he played the lead. It was taken for granted that she would come backstage afterward. Sometimes he included her in other cast gatherings, with “people your own age,” obliquely acknowledging his own, old enough to be her father. Cool. He apparently had no children, adult or otherwise, didn’t mention any. Was he gay? Now? Can a man change sexual preference, or literally embrace both? The way he embraced so startlingly, electric with the voltage of life, the beings created only in words by Shakespeare, Strindberg, Brecht, Beckett—oh, you name them, from the volumes holding down the letter telling of that Saturday. “You seem to understand that I—we—actors absolutely risk, kill ourselves, trying to reach the ultimate identity in what’s known as a character, beating ourselves down to let the creation take over. Haven’t you ever wanted to have a go yourself? Thought about acting?” She said, “I know an actuary is the absolute antithesis of all that. I don’t have the talent.” He didn’t make some comforting effort. Didn’t encourage magnanimously—Why not have a go? “Maybe you’re right. Nothing like the failure of an actor. It isn’t like other kinds of failure. It doesn’t just happen inside you; it happens before an audience. Better to be yourself. You’re a very interesting young woman, depths there. I don’t know if you know it, but I think you do.” Like every sexually attractive young woman, she was experienced with the mostly pathetic drive that aging men have toward young women. Some of the men are themselves attractive, either because they have somehow kept the promise of vigor—mouths filled with their own teeth, tight muscular buttocks in their jeans, no jowls, fine eyes that have seen much to impart—or because they’re well known, distinguished, yes, even rich. This actor, whose enduring male beauty was an attribute of his talent—he was probably more desirable now than he had been as a novice Marat in Peter Weiss’s play; all the roles he had taken—he had emerged from the risk with a strongly endowed identity. Although there was no apparent reason that he should not make the usual play for this young woman, there was no sign that he was doing so. She knew the moves; they were not being made. The attention was something else. Between them. Was this a question or a fact? They wouldn’t know, would they? He simply welcomed her like a breeze that blew in with this season abroad, in his old home town, and seemed to refresh him. Famous people have protégés, a customary part of the multiply responsive public reception. He told her, sure to be indulged, that he wanted to go back to an adventure, a part of the country he’d been thrilled by as a child, wanted to climb there, where there were great spiky plants with red candelabras. She told him that it was the wrong season—those plants wouldn’t be in bloom in this, his kind of season—but she’d drive him there; he took up the shy offer at once, and left the cast without him for two days, when the plays performed were not those in which he had the lead. They slipped and scrambled up the peaks he remembered, and, at the lodge in the evening, he was recognized, took this as inevitable, autographed bits of paper, and quipped privately with her that he had been mistaken in the past for a pop star he hadn’t heard of but ought to have. His unconscious vitality invigorated people around him wherever he was. No wonder he was such an innovative director; the critics wrote that in his hands the classic plays, even the standbys of Greek drama, were reimagined, as if this were the way they were meant to be and never had been before. It wasn’t in his shadow that she stood but in his light. As if she had been reimagined by herself. He was wittily critical at other people’s expense, and so with him she was free to think—say—what she found ponderous in those she worked with: the predictability among her set of friends, which she usually tolerated without stirring them up. Not that she saw much of her friends at present. She was part of the cast of the backstage scene now, a recruit to the family of actors in the coffee shop at lunch, privy to their gossip, their bantering with the actor-director who drew so much from them, rousing their eager talent. The regular Charlie dinners with her father, often postponed, were subdued; he caught this from her. There wasn’t much for them to talk about. Unless she wanted to show off her new associations. The old impulse came, unwelcome, to go with her father to the theatre. Suppressed. But returned. To sit with him and together see the man commanding on the stage. What for? What would this resolve? Was she Charlotte or Charlie? Charlie said, “Let’s see the play that’s had such rave reviews. I’ll get tickets.” He didn’t demur, had perhaps forgotten who Rendall Harris was, might be. He led her to the bar afterward, talking of the play with considering interest. He had not seen Beckett in ages; the play wore well, was not outdated. She didn’t want to be there. It was late, she said. No, no, she didn’t want a drink, the bar was too crowded. But he persuaded gently, “We won’t stay. I’m thirsty, need a beer.” The leading actor was caught in a spatter of applause as he moved among the admiring drinkers. He talked through clusters of others and then arrived. “Rendall, my father.” “Congratulations. Wonderful performance—the critics don’t exaggerate.” The actor dismissed the praise as if he’d had enough of that from people who didn’t understand what such an interpretation of Vladimir or Estragon involved, the—what was that word he always used?—risk. “I didn’t feel right tonight. I was missing a beat. Charlotte, you’ve seen me do better, hey, m’darling.” Her father picked up his glass but didn’t drink. “Last time I saw you was in the play set in an asylum. Laila de Morne was Charlotte Corday.” Her father told. “Of course, you always get chalked up in the critics’ hierarchy by how you play the classics, but I’m more fascinated by the new stuff—movement theatre, parts I can take from zero. I’ve sat in that bathtub too many times, knifed by Charlotte Cordays. . . .” The projection of that disarmingly self-deprecating laugh. She spoke what she had not told, had not yet found the right time and situation to say to him: “Laila de Morne is my mother.” No more to be discarded in the past tense than the performance of the de Sade asylum where she had been Charlotte Corday to his Marat. “That’s how I was named.” “Well, you’re sure not a Charlotte to carry a knife, spoil your beautiful aura with that, frighten off the men around you.” Peaked eyebrows, as if he were, ruefully, one of them—a trick from the actors’ repertoire contradicted by a momentary, hardly perceptible contact of those eyes with her own, diamonds, black with the intensity that it was his talent to summon, a stage prop taken up and at once released, at will. Laila was Laila. When they were silent in the pause at a traffic light, her father touched the open shield of his palm to the back of her head, the unobtrusive caress he had offered when driving her to boarding school. If she was, for her own reasons, now differently disturbed, that was not to be pried at. She was meant to drop him at his apartment, but when she drew up at the entrance she opened the car door at her side, as he did his, and went to him in the street. He turned—what’s the matter? She moved her head—nothing. She went to him and he saw, without understanding, that he should take her in his arms. She held him. He kissed her cheek, and she pressed it against his. Nothing to do with DNA. 
Hanwell Senior Hanwell Snr was Hanwell’s father. Like Hanwell, he existed in a small way. Not in his person—he was a “big personality,” in that odious phrase—but in his history, which is partial, almost phantasmagoric. Even to Hanwell he seemed a kind of mirage, and nothing pleasant about it. A feckless and slapdash man—worse, in many ways, than a cruel man. Those who have experience of such people will understand. Cruelty can be righteously opposed, eventually dismissed. A freewheeling carelessness with your cares is something else again. It must teach you a sad self-sufficiency, being fathered like that, and a brutal reticence of the heart. A reluctance to get going at all. Hanwell Snr came to Hanwell like a comet, at long intervals. He was there when Hanwell was born, surely, and six years after that on a beach in Brighton, holding Hanwell by the armpits and dangling him over a pier. Hanwell Snr spent that evening away from his family, to whom he gave a little money with the generous idea of a round of fish and chips. It didn’t stretch as far as that. A boyo, with charm in spades. That sounds antique, but “boyo” was the word one would have used at the time. First to raise a glass and last to put it down—very much hail fellow, well met—although he was never a drunk, and never incompetent. The type to sing along with those far worse gone than himself, with the idea of gaining advantage over them in their weakness. Back at home, he had a machine he put tuppence in and a fag came out, like in a pub. Also, an eye for his wife’s nearest neighbor, a widow, Sue Boyd—Sue, Sue, I’m very much in love with you, to the tune of a famous ballad of the time, catching her round the waist and waltzing her from the back door to the gate, Mrs. Hanwell smiling helplessly on from the window. A big man physically, far bigger than Hanwell. And then later, maybe that same year, maybe the next, on November 5th, suddenly at the back door in the blackness with the gift of some penny bangers. He didn’t stay to light these with Hanwell. Then gone again. “Went out for a pack of cigarettes and never came back”: a common enough refrain in England, then and now. Only, Hanwell Snr was one of the periodic returnees. This makes it worse, as previously discussed. Leaving Hanwell standing in the blackness in short trousers holding bangers. This was never forgotten. It persists, a fleck of the late nineteen-twenties. It is recorded here by a descendant of Hanwell Snr of whom he could have had no notion, being as unreal to him as broadband or goblins. No one can explain the process by which these things are retained while much else vanishes—a lot of sentimental rubbish is written on the subject. Hanwell himself kept faith with scientific explanations. He knew nothing whatsoever of science. Dimly, he imagined chemical flareups in the brain chemistry, arresting moving images (his analogy came from photographic film, of which he had some experience), and that these “flareups” are random in their occasion and unobservable at the moment they happen. Of course, the writing of this is also a kind of “flareup,” albeit of a sadder, secondary and parasitic kind. In the mid-thirties, Hanwell Snr went to Canada, an attempt to make his fortune in logging. Hanwell was given a brief, thrilling tour of the ship before it sailed, although not by his father; a crewman put a candle on a thick brass rail and thus demonstrated to Hanwell how crosswise scratches turn orderly and concentric in thrown light. Three years later Hanwell Snr returned, still with no money. He was now able to roll a cigarette with one hand the way the cowboys did. Hanwell was not especially impressed. Subsequently, Hanwell Snr became a conductor on the buses. Then came the war, from which he never really returned, having fallen for a middle-class lady who drove an ambulance. Turned up once at Hanwell’s own barracks, with a new name—“Bill”—and the affectations of an Irishman. It was eerie to witness. Words held no security with Hanwell Snr, served as no anchor, bore no relation to the things of the world. A darker shade of this same tendency is called “psychopathy.” He took out a few filthy photos from the Far East and told amusing, believable anecdotes set in Kerry. This, to a stranger, would appear to fit well with the copper-wire hair and the close eyes. Hanwell wished himself more of a stranger. As it stood, he could only wince inwardly at this second, false personality, while making a good show of laughing along as Bill made a friend of all the young soldiers whom Hanwell himself had not yet managed to befriend. “Good sort, your old man! Lively, good for a laugh!” Said approvingly, and probably true (Hanwell tried hard to be generous in his interpretations), if you happened not to be his son. If you happened not to be his son. Bill walked out two hours later, merry as Christmas. Wasn’t seen again by Hanwell for twelve years. It was August of 1956. Hanwell got word that his father was nicely set up with a little business in an obscure village in the county of Kent. Without any real expectation—or none he could confess to himself—Hanwell got on his bike. This time, he would appear. It was nothing to him, back then, to ride from London to Kent. He was young, relatively speaking, though he wouldn’t have thought himself especially so, with a young family already. He did not know then that a second family lay in wait for him, not yet sprung, coiled in his future. A roasting August day. Hanwell had devised a water carrier out of an old plastic kerosene bottle and strapped it to the crossbar—an invention a little ahead of its time. He powered along a newly built stretch of the A20, wherever possible nipping off and taking byroads through the villages, feeling that the air was purer there. I hope I can say “hedgerow” and it will be clear that I don’t mean to be poetic, but only historically accurate. Hedgerow, thick and briary, caught his shirt twice and made it ragged round the elbow. He had it in his mind—as I have it in mine, with equal stubbornness, when I am writing at length—not to stop before a certain point; he would eat at his destination and not before. One more mile, one more chapter, one more mile, one more chapter. The village was in a little valley; Hanwell swooned round the bends and rolled into town, stopping at the village green, which was all the village there was. Two establishments stood nearby: a redbrick pub with pretty clumps of lavender growing in the window pots and, on the other side of the green, a luridly painted fish-and-chip van. Hanwell knew better than to hope. He got off his bike and pushed it with a sure touch round the perimeter, the faintest pressure of left hand to saddle. It was four o’clock—the van was shut up. He leaned the bike against gypsy-red lettering outlined in gold: “HANWELL’S FINEST FISH AND CHIPS.” He went to sit in the grass, beneath a tree, overlooking the cricket pitch and the marshy land near the ponds. He was unable to absorb these various lessons in the color green. Instead, there was smell: sear-leaved, blowsy roses, last of the summer. Collect them, give them to your sister, 1931. Recipe for Irene Hanwell’s Lady’s Perfume Six roses (stolen, petals removed) Water from the tap Empty milk bottle Squish petals in fist to release the odor. Put in bottle. Fill with water. His feet stank. He took off his shoes. At home he had a wife who was not well, not well in a manner he could do nothing about nor understand, but as he sat here now in the sun, the tense, resistant nub of flesh inside his back resolved itself for the first time in months. He lay down. His spine pressed into the soil a notch at a time, undid him. Upside down was a land of female legs. He was fond of these new bell-shaped skirts, wide enough to crawl under and be kept safe, and wished he had waited to marry, or married differently. He thought, What if I stayed here? Let the sun swallow me, and the orange dazzle under my eyelids become not just the thing I see but the thing that I am, and let the one daisy with the bent stem, and the rose smell and the girl upside down on the pub bench eating an upside-down ploughman’s with her upside-down friend be the whole of the law and the girth of the world. Wasn’t it the work of moments, of a little paint, to change “HANWELL’S FINEST” to “HANWELL AND HANWELL”? Note: I have reconstituted Hanwell’s thoughts for you, as seem likely to me, and as sound nicest. In the novel “Middlemarch,” we find the old adage of a man’s charity growing in direct proportion to its distance from his own door. This is reminiscent of all the dutiful grandchildren and great-grandchildren lingering over deathbeds with digital recorders, or else manically pursuing their ancestors through the online genealogy sites at three in the morning, so very eager to reconstitute the lives and thoughts of dead and soon-to-be-dead men, though they may regularly screen the phone calls of their own mothers. I am of that generation. I will do anything for my family except see them. It was 1956, as mentioned above. There was nothing but the sun, and Hanwell and the sun. Lying in a patch of long grass, Hanwell dreamed a conversation: HANWELL SNR: (lying beside Hanwell) So you found me, then. HANWELL: Yes, Alf. Wasn’t I meant to? HANWELL SNR: Now, look: have a smoke—don’t get ahead of yourself. HANWELL: (taking a Senior Service from its packet) Thank you. HANWELL SNR: So, boy. How are you? I’m doing all right for myself, as you can see. HANWELL: Ah, yes, indeed, and even so. Thus is it much liketh the great novel by George Eliot— HANWELL SNR: Oh, don’t talk guff, boy. You always do that—pretend you’re something you’re not and never have been. You never did read any of that. Anyone’d think you’d been up to the university, talking like I don’t know what. HANWELL: (sadly) We couldn’t afford the uniform for the grammar. I passed the eleven-plus, but we couldn’t afford it. HANWELL SNR: (laughing till he cries) Still telling that old chestnut? Dear, oh dear. Bit antique that story, isn’t it? I’d rather call a spade a spade, let everything come up roses. Well, whatever floats your boat, Hanwell, I’m sure. HANWELL: (sung) I put a chestnut in a boat. . . . I rowed it with a spade. . . . A rose I gave my love that day. HANWELL SNR: You’ve gone soft. “Whose bike is this?” Hanwell sat up and was greeted—not with any particular surprise, although with a little sheepishness—and offered the first chips out of the fryer, which he accepted. “I’ve a little foldup table somewhere here. . . . ” Hanwell watched Hanwell Snr struggle with the household bric-a-brac and shabby furniture piled up in the back of the van. A tall lamp with a tasselled shade and a coat stand lay across each other: a coat of arms for the house of Hanwell. The ambulance driver, Bunty, who might have kept things clean for him, had died the year before—her money had bought this little concern. Maybe she had cooked him his greens, too, and watched his drink, and it was only now that the ghastly bloat took hold, and the blood vessels broke and dispersed beneath the skin of the nose and cheeks, and the orange whiskers grew wild and laced with gray. It was a shock. Historically, Hanwell Snr was physically superior to Hanwell: Sit on my back—go on, sit on it! You won’t break me! Usually said to a lady, and then when she was settled like the Buddha he’d do a press-up or two, sometimes five. Now he turned, holding the little table upside down against his vast belly, and this soft thing, more than all the rest, announced him as a man deserted by women. “There we are”—his great arse pressed on the tabletop; the cast-iron legs sunk deep into the lawn—“I don’t believe in standing and eating.” He brought out two little stools, and Hanwell sat on the one handed to him. For a time, Hanwell Snr made his own reluctance to sit appear quite natural, busying himself with the hot oil and dismissing certain chips as not fit to be thrown in the fryer if his only son was to eat them. When the fuss of frying was over, Hanwell realized the obvious: his father couldn’t stand to look at him. They remained looking out on the meadow beyond the green, Hanwell Snr leaning against the van, despite his beliefs, with his sweaty cone of newspaper and chewing each chip a long time. He looked across Hanwell if Hanwell spoke, but never at him. Of their conversation, Hanwell could retain practically nothing, finding it quite as unreal as their dream talk earlier. While Hanwell silently pursued a series of unlikely but longed-for confessions (Well, son, the thing is . . . To tell you the truth, I regret terribly . . . ), in the real, thick ripple of the air Hanwell Snr was sweating and rambling about the Suez business and the Araby bastards and other matters of the world that Hanwell—the least political of men, a man for whom the world was, and could consist only of, those people he saw or spoke to every day, fed, washed, or made love to—could not comprehend. At last the topic turned to the people who concerned Hanwell—Hanwell’s wife, Hanwell’s daughters. Hanwell shyly described his current difficulty, making use of the doctor’s careful and superior phrases (“mental disturbance” and “a tendency toward hysteria”). Hanwell Snr took a hankie from his back pocket, worked it round the grime on the back of his neck. He took his time folding it back into quarters. Hanwell saw at once that his father thought it entirely typical of Hanwell to marry a woman who was broken in some way, and now felt much the same satirical disgust he’d expressed when the boy Hanwell, instead of laughing at being dangled from a pier, took it in his head to cry. “Well, I’ll say this,” he said, finishing his lecture about Hanwell’s ineptitude at choosing things right and seeing the way of things, and moving on to the more general subject of “women,” which allowed, at least, the concession that Hanwell’s trouble might not be Hanwell’s fault alone: “They rewrite history—can’t let a man be himself. Always telling you what you would be and should be and might be, rather than what you are. And what they’re offering in return for all that isn’t half as good as they think it is—or I’ve never found it so. But maybe you’ve done better—Lord knows, they look a damn sight better these days than in my day. . . .” Twenty yards from where they sat, two young women in sundresses were helping each other achieve a handstand. Hanwell Snr nudged Hanwell in his gut, and Hanwell felt strongly the implicit insult to his own mother, who still lived, and still wore her flapper curls—white now—close to her forehead, and the same heavy cloche felt caps and Harold Lloyd glasses, perfectly round and thick-rimmed. He said nothing. He ate his chips as the blond, peaky-looking girl firmed her body in preparation for the arrival of the lovely thick ankles of the brunette, well fed as they never were ten years earlier, and when this brunette overreached, and her breasts pressed tight against the cotton of her yellow dress and her legs went backward, and the crinoline frothed over her blond friend’s narrow shoulders, Hanwell and Hanwell watched them laugh and shake together and fall, finally, in a human heap on the grass. Soon after, Hanwell Snr gathered the two empty paper cones and pressed them into a soggy ball in his hands, and said he’d better open the shutters, as it was teatime and folk would be wanting their food. Hanwell never saw him again. On a date in 1986, one that only the record office would remember now, the phone rang in Hanwell’s kitchen as he cooked. He was making pizza with homemade dough for the young children of his second family, and his topping was a loose, watery, fresh tomato sauce, laced with anchovies and black olives, so piquant and delicious you could eat it by the spoonful and forgo the crust altogether. It is possible only I liked to do that. I extrapolate my feelings too generally. “Yes, I see—thank you . . . it was good of you to let us know,” said Hanwell in a voice a shade more posh than his own. He put down the phone and left the room. After the pizza was finished, he came back in, pale, but composed. He said his father had died, a sentence that required us—my mother, my brother, and me—to invent a whole human in one second and kill him off the next. Hanwell had said nothing to prepare us. He had known weeks earlier that his father’s death was imminent—he did not go to him. Twenty years later, Hanwell’s son would not go to Hanwell when his hour came. It happens that in the course of my professional duties I am often found making the statement “I don’t believe in patterns.” A butterfly on a pin has no idea what a pretty shape it makes. “He never settled,” said Hanwell, “and now he’s come to the end of the road,” a quaint metaphor, like those that Borges enjoyed, and we, equally, interpreted it literally, thinking of Brighton pier, Brighton being Hanwell country for us, and the place where Hanwell’s people generally died. When I was a kid, I had a dream—never forgotten!—of the cool, flat Brighton pebbles being placed over my body, as the Jews place stones on top of their dead; piled up and up over my corpse, until I was entirely buried and families came to picnic over me, not knowing, for I was Brighton bedrock now, as Hanwells had been (in my dream logic) since there were Hanwells in England. There have always been Hanwells in England. But I am a female Hanwell and lost my name when I married. 
One Minus One The moon hangs low over Texas. The moon is my mother. She is full tonight, and brighter than the brightest neon; there are folds of red in her vast amber. Maybe she is a harvest moon, a Comanche moon, I do not know. I have never seen a moon so low and so full of her own deep brightness. My mother is six years dead tonight, and Ireland is six hours away and you are asleep. I am walking. No one else is walking. It is hard to cross Guadalupe; the cars come fast. In the Community Whole Food Store, where all are welcome, the girl at the checkout asks me if I would like to join the store’s club. If I pay seventy dollars, my membership, she says, will never expire, and I will get a seven-per-cent discount on all purchases. Six years. Six hours. Seventy dollars. Seven per cent. I tell her I am here for a few months only, and she smiles and says that I am welcome. I smile back. I can still smile. If I called you now, it would be half two in the morning; you could easily be awake. If I called, I could go over everything that happened six years ago. Because that is what is on my mind tonight, as though no time had elapsed, as though the strength of the moonlight had by some fierce magic chosen tonight to carry me back to the last real thing that happened to me. On the phone to you across the Atlantic, I could go over the days surrounding my mother’s funeral. I could go over all the details as though I were in danger of forgetting them. I could remind you, for example, that you wore a white shirt at the funeral. It must have been warm enough not to wear a jacket. I remember that I could see you when I spoke about her from the altar, that you were over in the side aisle, on the left. I remember that you, or someone, said that you had parked your car almost in front of the cathedral because you had come late from Dublin and could not find parking anywhere else. I know that you moved your car before the hearse came after Mass to take my mother’s coffin to the graveyard, with all of us walking behind. You came to the hotel once she was in the ground, and you stayed for a meal with me and Suzie, my sister. Joe, her husband, must have been near, and Cathal, my brother, but I don’t remember what they did when the meal was over and the crowd had dispersed. I know that as the meal came to an end a friend of my mother’s, who noticed everything, came over and looked at you and whispered to me that it was nice that my friend had come. She used the word “friend” with a sweet, insinuating emphasis. I did not tell her that what she had noticed was no longer there, was part of the past. I simply said, yes, it was nice that you had come. You know that you are the only person who shakes his head in exasperation when I insist on making jokes and small talk, when I refuse to be direct. No one else has ever minded this as you do. You are alone in wanting me always to say something that is true. I know now, as I walk toward the house I have rented here, that if I called and told you that the bitter past has come back to me tonight in these alien streets with a force that feels like violence, you would say that you are not surprised. You would wonder only why it has taken six years. I was living in New York then, the city about to enter its last year of innocence. I had a new apartment there, just as I had a new apartment everywhere I went. It was on Ninetieth and Columbus. You never saw it. It was a mistake. I think it was a mistake. I didn’t stay there long—six or seven months—but it was the longest I stayed anywhere in those years or the years that followed. The apartment needed to be furnished, and I spent two or three days taking pleasure in the sharp bite of buying things: two easy chairs that I later sent back to Ireland; a leather sofa from Bloomingdale’s, which I eventually gave to one of my students; a big bed from 1-800-Mattres; a table and some chairs from a place downtown; a cheap desk from the thrift shop. And all those days—a Friday, a Saturday, and a Sunday, at the beginning of September—as I was busy with delivery times, credit cards, and the whiz of taxis from store to store, my mother was dying and no one could find me. I had no cell phone, and the phone line in the apartment had not been connected. I used the pay phone on the corner if I needed to make calls. I gave the delivery companies a friend’s phone number, in case they had to let me know when they would come with my furniture. I phoned my friend a few times a day, and she came shopping with me sometimes and she was fun and I enjoyed those days. The days when no one in Ireland could find me to tell me that my mother was dying. Eventually, late on the Sunday night, I slipped into a Kinko’s and went online and found that Suzie had left me message after message, starting three days before, marked “Urgent” or “Are you there” or “Please reply” or “Please acknowledge receipt” and then just “Please!!!” I read one of them, and I replied to say that I would call as soon as I could find a phone, and then I read the rest of them one by one. My mother was in the hospital. She might have to have an operation. Suzie wanted to talk to me. She was staying at my mother’s house. There was nothing more in any of them, the urgency being not so much in their tone as in their frequency and the different titles she gave to each e-mail that she sent. I woke her in the night in Ireland. I imagined her standing in the hall at the bottom of the stairs. I would love to say that Suzie told me my mother was asking for me, but she said nothing like that. She spoke instead about the medical details and how she herself had been told the news that our mother was in the hospital and how she had despaired of ever finding me. I told her that I would call again in the morning, and she said that she would know more then. My mother was not in pain now, she said, although she had been. I did not tell her that my classes would begin in three days, because I did not need to. That night, it sounded as though she wanted just to talk to me, to tell me. Nothing more. But in the morning when I called I realized that she had put quick thought into it as soon as she heard my voice on the phone, that she had known I could not make arrangements to leave for Dublin late on a Sunday night, that there would be no flights until the next evening; she had decided to say nothing until the morning. She had wanted me to have an easy night’s sleep. And I did, and in the morning when I phoned she said simply that there would come a moment very soon when the family would have to decide. She spoke about the family as though it were as distant as the urban district council or the government or the United Nations, but she knew and I knew that there were just the three of us. We were the family, and there is only one thing that a family is ever asked to decide in a hospital. I told her that I would come home; I would get the next flight. I would not be in my new apartment for some of the furniture deliverers, and I would not be at the university for my first classes. Instead, I would find a flight to Dublin, and I would see her as soon as I could. My friend phoned Aer Lingus and discovered that a few seats were kept free for eventualities like this. I could fly out that evening. You know that I do not believe in God. I do not care much about the mysteries of the universe, unless they come to me in words, or in music maybe, or in a set of colors, and then I entertain them merely for their beauty and only briefly. I do not even believe in Ireland. But you know, too, that in these years of being away there are times when Ireland comes to me in a sudden guise, when I see a hint of something familiar that I want and need. I see someone coming toward me, with a soft way of smiling, or a stubborn uneasy face, or a way of moving warily through a public place, or a raw, almost resentful stare into the middle distance. In any case, I went to J.F.K. that evening, and I saw them as soon as I got out of the taxi: a middle-aged couple pushing a trolley that had too much luggage on it, the man looking fearful and mild, as though he might be questioned by someone at any moment and not know how to defend himself, and the woman harassed and weary, her clothes too colorful, her heels too high, her mouth set in pure, blind determination, but her eyes humbly watchful, undefiant. I could easily have spoken to them and told them why I was going home and they both would have stopped and asked me where I was from, and they would have nodded with understanding when I spoke. Even the young men in the queue to check in, going home for a quick respite—just looking at their tentative stance and standing in their company saying nothing, that brought ease with it. I could breathe for a while without worry, without having to think. I, too, could look like them, as though I owned nothing, or nothing much, and were ready to smile softly or keep my distance without any arrogance if someone said, “Excuse me,” or if an official approached. When I picked up my ticket, and went to the check-in desk, I was told to go to the other desk, which looked after business class. It occurred to me, as I took my bag over, that it might be airline policy to comfort those who were going home for reasons such as mine with an upgrade, to cosset them through the night with quiet sympathy and an extra blanket or something. But when I got to the desk I knew why I had been sent there, and I wondered about God and Ireland, because the woman at the desk had seen my name being added to the list and had told the others that she knew me and would like to help me now that I needed help. Her name was Frances Carey, and she had lived next door to my aunt’s house, where we—myself and Cathal—were left when my father got sick. I was eight years old then. Frances must have been ten years older, but I remember her well, as I do her sister and her two brothers, one of whom was close to me in age. Their family owned the house that my aunt lived in, the aunt who took us in. They were grander than she was and much richer, but she had become friendly with them, and there was, since the houses shared a large back garden and some outhouses, a lot of traffic between the two establishments. Cathal was four then, but in his mind he was older. He was learning to read already, he was clever and had a prodigious memory, and was treated as a young boy in our house rather than as a baby; he could decide which clothes to wear each day and what television he wanted to watch and which room he would sit in and what food he would eat. When his friends called at the house, he could freely ask them in, or go out with them. When relatives or friends of my parents called, they asked for him, too, and spoke to him and listened avidly to what he had to say. In all the years that followed, Cathal and I never once spoke about our time in this new house with this new family. And my memory, usually so good, is not always clear. I cannot remember, for example, how we got to the house, who drove us there, or what this person said. I know that I was eight years old only because I remember what class I was in at school when I left and who the teacher was. It is possible that this period lasted just two or three months. Maybe it was more. It was not summer, I am sure of that, because Suzie, who remained unscathed by all of this (or so she said, when once, years ago, I asked her if she remembered it), was back at boarding school. I have no memory of cold weather in that house in which we were deposited, although I do think that the evenings were dark early. Maybe it was from September to December. Or the first months after Christmas. I am not sure. What I remember clearly is the rooms themselves, the parlor and dining room almost never used and the kitchen, larger than ours at home, and the smell and taste of fried bread. I hated the hot thick slices, fresh from the pan, soaked in lard or dripping. I remember that our cousins were younger than we were and had to sleep during the day, or at least one of them did, and we had to be quiet for hours on end, even though we had nothing to do; we had none of our toys or books. I remember that nobody liked us, either of us, not even Cathal, who, before and after this event, was greatly loved by people who came across him. We slept in my aunt’s house and ate her food as best we could, and we must have played or done something, although we never went to school. Nobody did us any harm in that house; nobody came near us in the night, or hit either of us, or threatened us, or made us afraid. The time we were left by our mother in our aunt’s house has no drama attached to it. It was all grayness, strangeness. Our aunt dealt with us in her own distracted way. Her husband was mild, distant, almost good-humored. And all I know is that our mother did not get in touch with us once, not once, during this time. There was no letter or phone call or visit. Our father was in the hospital. We did not know how long we were going to be left there. In the years that followed, our mother never explained her absence, and we never asked her if she had ever wondered how we were, or how we felt, during those months. This should be nothing, because it resembled nothing, just as one minus one resembles zero. It should be barely worth recounting to you as I walk the empty streets of this city in the desert so far away from where I belong. It feels as though Cathal and I had spent that time in the shadow world, as though we had been quietly lowered into the dark, everything familiar missing, and nothing we did or said could change this. Because no one gave any sign of hating us, it did not strike us that we were in a world where no one loved us, or that such a thing might matter. We did not complain. We were emptied of everything, and in the vacuum came something like silence—almost no sound at all, just some sad echoes and dim feelings. I promise you that I will not call. I have called you enough, and woken you enough times, in the years when we were together and in the years since then. But there are nights now in this strange, flat, and forsaken place when those sad echoes and dim feelings come to me slightly louder than before. They are like whispers, or trapped whimpering sounds. And I wish that I had you here, and I wish that I had not called you all those other times when I did not need to as much as I do now. My brother and I learned not to trust anyone. We learned then not to talk about things that mattered to us, and we stuck to this, as much as we could, with a sort of grim stubborn pride, all our lives, as though it were a skill. But you know that, don’t you? I do not need to call you to tell you that. At J.F.K. that night, Frances Carey smiled warmly and asked me how bad things were. When I told her that my mother was dying, she said that she was shocked. She remembered my mother so well, she said. She said she was sorry. She explained that I could use the first-class lounge, making it clear, however, in the most pleasant way, that I would be crossing the Atlantic in coach, which was what I had paid for. If I needed her, she said, she could come up in a while and talk, but she had told the people in the lounge and on the plane that she knew me, and they would look after me. As we spoke and she tagged my luggage and gave me my boarding pass, I guessed that I had not laid eyes on her for more than thirty years. But in her face I could see the person I had known, as well as traces of her mother and one of her brothers. In her presence—the reminder she offered of that house where Cathal and I had been left all those years ago—I could feel that this going home to my mother’s bedside would not be simple, that some of our loves and attachments are elemental and beyond our choosing, and for that very reason they come spiced with pain and regret and need and hollowness and a feeling as close to anger as I will ever be able to manage. Sometime during the night in that plane, as we crossed part of the Western Hemisphere, quietly and, I hope, unnoticed, I began to cry. I was back then in the simple world before I had seen Frances Carey, a world in which someone whose heartbeat had once been mine, and whose blood became my blood, and inside whose body I once lay curled, herself lay stricken in a hospital bed. The fear of losing her made me desperately sad. And then I tried to sleep. I pushed back my seat as the night wore on and kept my eyes averted from the movie being shown, whatever it was, and let the terrible business of what I was flying toward hit me. I hired a car at the airport, and I drove across Dublin in the washed light of that early September morning. I drove through Drumcondra, Dorset Street, Mountjoy Square, Gardiner Street, and the streets across the river that led south, as though they were a skin that I had shed. I did not stop for two hours or more, until I reached the house, fearing that if I pulled up somewhere to have breakfast the numbness that the driving with no sleep had brought might lift. Suzie was just out of bed when I arrived, and Jim was still asleep. Cathal had gone back to Dublin the night before, she said, but would be down later. She sighed and looked at me. The hospital had phoned, she went on, and things were worse. Your mother, she said, had a stroke during the night, on top of everything else. It was an old joke between us: never “our mother” or “my mother” or “Mammy” or “Mummy,” but “your mother.” The doctors did not know how bad the stroke had been, she said, and they were still ready to operate if they thought they could. But they needed to talk to us. It was a pity, she added, that our mother’s specialist, the man who looked after her heart, and whom she saw regularly and liked, was away. I realized then why Cathal had gone back to Dublin—he did not want to be a part of the conversation that we would have with the doctors. Two of us would be enough. He had told Suzie to tell me that whatever we decided would be fine with him. Neither of us blamed him. He was the one who had become close to her. He was the one she loved most. Or maybe he was the only one she loved. In those years, anyway. Or maybe that is unfair. Maybe she loved us all, just as we loved her as she lay dying. And I moved, in those days—that Tuesday morning to the Friday night when she died—from feeling at times a great remoteness from her to wanting fiercely, almost in the same moment, my mother back where she had always been, in witty command of her world, full of odd dreams and perspectives, difficult, ready for life. She loved, as I did, books and music and hot weather. As she grew older she had managed, with her friends and with us, a pure charm, a lightness of tone and touch. But I knew not to trust it, not to come close, and I never did. I managed, in turn, to exude my own lightness and charm, but you know that, too. You don’t need me to tell you that, either, do you? I regretted nonetheless, as I sat by her bed or left so that others might see her—I regretted how far I had moved away from her, and how far away I had stayed. I regretted how much I had let those months apart from her in the limbo of my aunt’s house, and the years afterward, as my father slowly died, eat away at my soul. I regretted how little she knew about me, as she, too, must have regretted that, although she never complained or mentioned it, except perhaps to Cathal, and he told no one anything. Maybe she regretted nothing. But nights are long in winter, when darkness comes down at four o’clock and people have time to think of everything. Maybe that is why I am here now, away from Irish darkness, away from the long, deep winter that settles so menacingly on the place where I was born. I am away from the east wind. I am in a place where so much is empty because it was never full, where things are forgotten and swept away, if there ever were things. I am in a place where there is nothing. Flatness, a blue sky, a soft, unhaunted night. A place where no one walks. Maybe I am happier here than I would be anywhere else, and it is only the poisonous innocence of the moon tonight that has made me want to dial your number and see if you are awake. As we drove to see my mother that morning, I could not ask Suzie a question that was on my mind. My mother had been sick for four days now and was lying there maybe frightened, and I wondered if she had reached out her hand to Cathal and if they had held hands in the hospital, if they had actually grown close enough for that. Or if she had made some gesture to Suzie. And if she might do the same to me. It was a stupid, selfish thing I wondered about, and, like everything else that came into my mind in those days, it allowed me to avoid the fact that there would be no time anymore for anything to be explained or said. We had used up all our time. And I wondered if that made any difference to my mother then, as she lay awake in the hospital those last few nights of her life: we had used up all our time. She was in intensive care. We had to ring the bell and wait to be admitted. There was a hush over the place. We had discussed what I would say to her so as not to alarm her, how I would explain why I had come back. I told Suzie that I would simply say that I’d heard she was in the hospital and I’d had a few days free before classes began and had decided to come back to make sure that she was O.K. “Are you feeling better?” I asked her. She could not speak. Slowly and laboriously, she let us know that she was thirsty and they would not allow her to drink anything. She had a drip in her arm. We told the nurses that her mouth was dry, and they said that there was nothing much we could do, except perhaps take tiny drops of cold water and put them on her lips using those special little sticks with cotton-wool tips that women use to put on eye makeup. I sat by her bed and spent a while wetting her lips. I was at home with her now. I knew how much she hated physical discomfort; her appetite for this water was so overwhelming and so desperate that nothing else mattered. And then word came that the doctors would see us. When we stood up and told her that we would be back, she hardly responded. We were ushered by a nurse with an English accent down some corridors to a room. There were two doctors there; the nurse stayed in the room. The doctor who seemed to be in charge, who said that he would have been the one to perform the operation, told us that he had just spoken to the anesthetist, who had insisted that my mother’s heart would not survive an operation. The stroke did not really matter, he said, although it did not help. “I could have a go,” he said, and then immediately apologized for speaking like that. He corrected himself: “I could operate, but she would die on the operating table.” There was a blockage somewhere, he said. There was no blood getting to her kidneys and maybe elsewhere as well—the operation would tell us for certain, but it would probably do nothing to solve the problem. It was her circulation, he said. The heart was simply not beating strongly enough to send blood into every part of her body. He knew to leave silence then, and the other doctor did, too. The nurse looked at the floor. “There’s nothing you can do then, is there?” I said. “We can make her comfortable,” he replied. “How long can she survive like this?” I asked. “Not long,” he said. “I mean, hours or days?” “Days. Some days.” “We can make her very comfortable,” the nurse said. There was nothing more to say. Afterward, I wondered if we should have spoken to the anesthetist personally, or tried to contact our mother’s consultant, or asked that she be moved to a bigger hospital for another opinion. But I don’t think any of this would have made a difference. For years, we had been given warnings that this moment would come, as she fainted in public places and lost her balance and declined. It had been clear that her heart was giving out, but not clear enough for me to have come to see her more than once or twice in the summer—and then when I did come I was protected from what might have been said, or not said, by the presence of Suzie and Jim and Cathal. Maybe I should have phoned a few times a week, or written her letters like a good son. But despite all the warning signals, or perhaps even because of them, I had kept my distance. And as soon as I entertained this thought, with all the regret that it carried, I imagined how coldly or nonchalantly a decision to spend the summer close by, seeing her often, might have been greeted by her, and how difficult and enervating for her, as much as for me, some of those visits or phone calls might have been. And how curtly efficient and brief her letters in reply to mine would have seemed. And, as we walked back down to see her, the nurse coming with us, there was this double regret—the simple one that I had kept away, and the other one, much harder to fathom, that I had been given no choice, that she had never wanted me very much, and that she was not going to be able to rectify that in the few days that she had left in the world. She would be distracted by her own pain and discomfort, and by the great effort she was making to be dignified and calm. She was wonderful, as she always had been. I touched her hand a few times in case she might open it and seek my hand, but she never did this. She did not respond to being touched. Some of her friends came. Cathal came and stayed with her. Suzie and I remained close by. On Friday morning, when the nurse asked me if I thought she was in distress, I said that I did. I knew that, if I insisted now, I could get her morphine and a private room. I did not consult the others; I knew that they would agree. I did not mention morphine to the nurse, but I knew that she was wise, and I saw by the way she looked at me as I spoke that she knew that I knew what morphine would do. It would ease my mother into sleep and ease her out of the world. Her breathing would come and go, shallow and deep, her pulse would become faint, her breathing would stop, and then come and go again. It would come and go until, in that private room late in the evening, it seemed to stop altogether, as, horrified and helpless, we sat and watched her, then sat up straight as the breathing started again, but not for long. Not for long at all. It stopped one last time, and it stayed stopped. It did not start again. She was gone. She lay still. We sat with her until a nurse came in and quietly checked her pulse and shook her head sadly and left the room. We stayed with her for a while; then, when they asked us to leave, we touched her on the forehead one by one, and we left the room, closing the door. We walked down the corridor as though for the rest of our lives our own breathing would bear traces of the end of hers, of her final struggle, as though our own way of being in the world had just been halved or quartered by what we had seen. We buried her beside my father, who had been in the grave waiting for her for thirty-three years. And the next morning I flew back to New York, to my half-furnished apartment on Columbus and Ninetieth, and began my teaching a day later. I understood, just as you might tell me now—if you picked up the phone and found me on the other end of the line, silent at first and then saying that I needed to talk to you—you might tell me that I had over all the years postponed too much. As I settled down to sleep in that new bed in the dark city, I saw that it was too late now, too late for everything. I would not be given a second chance. In the hours when I woke, I have to tell you that this struck me almost with relief. 
After the Movie Ed Vickery and his wife, Kate, came home late from the movies. They’d seen that big hit about ancient-Greek guys making a last stand against the Persian hordes. Ed’s mind had been elsewhere, however, with the I.R.S. and dodgy A.R.M.s, not severed heads in C.G.I. He felt flat, exhausted. His back hurt. His athlete’s foot itched. The rich, sickly smell of night-flowering jasmine swamped his lungs, and all of a sudden he had trouble breathing. “You’re in a lousy mood, and you should go to bed,” Kate said, and Ed grunted. “I’ll do that,” he said, but before he did he looked in on the boys. Luke and Denis, twelve and ten now, had been only too happy to be left without the babysitter that Ed could no longer afford. They’d watched a couple of DVDs, scarfed a tub of Ben & Jerry’s, probably forgotten to brush their teeth (for sure, in Denis’s case), and were busy feigning sleep. From one side of the room, Ed heard a suppressed giggle, from the other a silence that was too deep to be genuine. He went along with the game. In truth, he couldn’t face talking to his children. He said nothing, not even the usual “Good night, lads,” and pulled the door closed with a soft click. He brushed his teeth, showered quickly, and, while Kate was opening her laptop on the kitchen table, went to their bedroom, at the back of the house. He slipped on a pair of boxers, clambered beneath the covers, and started to weep. Here it comes, Ed thought. The Great Flood. Another one. His face screwed up. His chest was shaken by sobs. He knew he made a comical picture, a middle-aged man, still slim, with a full head of graying hair, sitting up in bed, letting himself go, blubbering, wailing, indulging in wild, spontaneous woe. He was beyond worrying about it. He didn’t feel like being spartan or stoic, or whatever. Instead, he surrendered to the full tsunami of his anxious terror. Hot tears gushed from his eyes, spangling the beam of the bedside lamp into rainbows, coursing down his cheeks, touching his lips with a salty taste, and splashing the yellowed pages of the book he hadn’t been aware he’d taken from the shelf, a collection of stories by Ivan Bunin, one of those writers he’d been meaning to get to for years. “The weird thing,” Ed said to himself, thinking of his friend Muldoon, “is that once I held your hand and told you not to give up.” This was true. Years ago, Muldoon, tortured in love and with his career in disarray, had been the one on the skids and flailing. Now it was Ed’s turn. “And it’s different when you’re fifty,” Ed said, choking back a sob. “I’m a fucking dead man.” Muldoon was a movie director. His small films were nominated for Oscars these days. His big ones grossed three hundred million worldwide. Muldoon no longer flew commercial, not even in first class, but soared above the roof of the world in private jets provided by the studio. He was on first-name terms with air-traffic controllers at J.F.K. and Charles de Gaulle. Muldoon was unassailable. Until a little while ago, his career and Ed’s had been on a par. They’d been comrades and peers. But things had changed. Ed was a writer. Used to be a writer, until his life started reverberating to the sound of doors slamming. Now he was a worrier, a weeper, a specialist only in the art of freestyle distress. He’d never been clever about money, but he’d always been able to earn it. Not anymore. His failed novels hit the remainder bins. Editors ignored his calls. And the teat of Hollywood had turned mean and dry. Ed’s scripts were unmade, his treatments ignored, his options no longer picked up. One producer was currently paying him not in cash but in unsliced Finnish rye bread shipped via Vermont. “I don’t want Luke and Denis to go hungry,” the producer said, uncannily remembering the boys’ names. Was this a fiendish joke or a sadistic gambit? Or did the guy, maybe, think the gesture was kind and would be appreciated? The loaf arrived weekly, resembling gold only in its bricklike weight. Ed’s revolving credit cards were maxed out. He’d been using the house like an A.T.M. He tried not to think about the mortgage. The low five-year interest rate, such an attractive idea five years ago, was about to expire, and spike. They’d lose their home. He saw no way to keep it. The prospect woke him nights in a flop sweat. It seemed to Ed that his world had changed in some awful and perhaps final way. “I’m at the end of my rope,” Ed announced to the empty room. To nail the point, he hurled the Bunin book against the wall and watched while it fluttered earthward like a stricken bird. “I am a fucking corpse.” Ed thought often of suicide, of checking into a Las Vegas hotel room and finishing himself off in some spectacular way, slitting his throat in a tub or spattering his brains with a pistol shot. Trouble was, Kate would be left with nothing. Then, there were the boys, old enough to sense that all was not well with Dad but still laughing at his jokes, loving him, depending on him. “Let them fend for themselves,” he said. “They can starve, for all I care.” The anger released some juices and perked him up. He remembered that once he’d seen Muldoon, in a dark moment, slap a smaller member of the burgeoning Muldoon brood. How many kids did Muldoon now have? Nine, or was it ten? Muldoon seemed to average two per marriage, and he was into his fourth marriage. “Way to go, Muldoon, way to treat the awful little buggers!” Muldoon had called him from Amsterdam earlier that day. It had been late in the California afternoon, three in the morning Dutch time. Muldoon had been on a night shoot, between takes on his latest action thriller. Ed—an Englishman who didn’t drive in L.A., a peculiarity understood by nobody, least of all Ed himself—had been wobbling back from Albertsons, a bag of groceries suspended from each side of his bike’s handlebars. He’d lurched almost into the path of a BMW while scrambling to retrieve the warbling cell from his jeans pocket. “Hello! Hello!” Would this be his agent, with news of a gig, a miracle? No. It had been Muldoon. “It’s the fucking writer. His name is James,” Muldoon had said, dispensing as usual with the preliminaries, success having freed up his always considerable admiration for role models like Napoleon and Stanley Kubrick. On his Berkshire estate, Muldoon liked to patrol the legions of trees he’d planted to guard his marijuana plants from prying eyes. “I’ve done him the synopsis. Done him the beat sheets. Done most of the bloody work, in other words, but still James won’t write my scenes. Know what he said?” By then Ed had heaved himself and his bike up onto the curb, where, with one hunched shoulder jamming the cell phone toward his ear, he’d failed to save a stalk of broccoli that had tumbled from an Albertsons bag and plopped down on the sidewalk, perilously close to a pile of dog shit. “James said, ‘Writing. It’s hard.’ Can you fucking believe it? He said he was going to fly to New York for the weekend. To recharge his batteries. Stock up on some inspiration. I said, ‘Fuck that, James. The only place you’re going is back to the hotel. To write my fucking scenes.’ Know what happened then?” Muldoon’s voice rose in sincere outrage. “Check this out. Bastard did go to the hotel. And two hours later he was on set again, with these two girls. Preposterously young Dutch totty. Miniskirts up to their fannies. And there was James, squiring them about like he owned the fucking place.” For a few wild, deluded seconds, Ed allowed himself to wonder whether Muldoon had fired the miscreant James and was about to ask him to come to Amsterdam—because, of course, it was Muldoon, the director, the supremo, who owned the place. “I said, ‘James, what the fuck is going on?’ He said, ‘I met them in the hotel night club.’ He did go back to the hotel, you see, like I’d told him to, and he went to the fucking night club. ‘They wanted to see the set,’ he said, ‘so I brought them out.’ I said, ‘James! Did there have to be two?’ A hundred and twenty-five grand a week the studio’s paying this lazy sod, and I still don’t have my fucking scenes.” Ed reeled. “A hundred and twenty-five grand!” “Dollars, not quid.” “Jesus! Just give me a week of that,” Ed said, trying to sound casual. “Nah, you’d fucking hate it, mate,” Muldoon said, as if Ed really had been joking. Muldoon had power, and people dogged him for favors. He expected Ed not to do that. He relied on Ed’s not doing it, the unchanged nature of their friendship being important to Muldoon’s sense of the whole story of his life. Muldoon had survived, prospered. Reclaimed, resurgent, Muldoon now needed Ed at the other end of the line to assure him of the fiction that they were no different. They’d met thirty years before, playing football—soccer, as the Americans insisted on calling it—slogging through the rain and freezing mud, chests out against the chill winds that gusted from Siberia across the desolate flatlands of eastern England. They’d been at university together. They’d sported on the green. “That fucking James. He does make me laugh,” Muldoon said. “United are doing great, aren’t they? Read anything good lately?” Ed had been unable to say, “Listen, I’m desperate, I can’t stop crying, I can’t do this anymore.” Muldoon, with his astute generalship, his instincts for self-protection, his radar attuned to the mood and ping of dialogue, had headed him off at the pass. Abuzz with shame and humiliation, Ed had gritted his teeth and regrouped his groceries. He’d retrieved the broccoli stalk and lifted it to his nostrils. Could he save this? It didn’t smell of dog shit, or no worse, anyway, than when he’d taken it off the refrigerated shelf in the store. He’d talked carelessly to his old friend about Ivan Bunin. “Yeah, I read something by him once,” Muldoon had said. “That famous story about the bloke dying abroad. They stick him in a crate and shove him in the hold of a ship to take him home. Quite spooky, really.” There was this thing about Muldoon: he knew movies, his craft, but he read everything, too. Muldoon was, in his eccentric and loopy way, tireless and a bit of a genius. Ed wished he could say the same for himself. Instead, he was on a filthy L.A. sidewalk, worrying about broccoli. “Great goal by Michael Carrick against Roma the other night,” Muldoon had said, signing off. “The first one. Magnificent!” Ed wiped his eyes and blew his nose. He clambered out of bed and retrieved the book from where he’d thrown it. He smoothed the cover, which showed a neat, bearded man with his face in shadow. Bunin. Hadn’t he fled the Nazis and killed himself? Or was that Walter Benjamin? Ed’s memory was getting sketchy. Probably they’d both topped themselves. Most people died in exile, one way or another. Wearily, Ed hitched up his boxers and padded to the bathroom. He needed to piss so often now, his prostate having swollen in recent years to the size of a fist. At least he wouldn’t have to hear about that anymore, the Writers Guild health insurance having run out. His prostate could grow without fear of medical supervision or intervention. Muldoon was right. Life was a farce. But Ed felt sure that his own particular version of the commedia would be finita all too soon. He was a beast being shuffled across the threshold of the slaughterhouse. How had this disaster happened? All those millions of words he’d written, all the forests of newsprint—they’d somehow amounted to nothing. Kate was still in the kitchen, seated in the breakfast nook, surrounded by books and CDs that she was listing for sale on eBay, trying to keep some cash trickling in. She was testy with Ed, and small wonder, but she refused to give up. She was amazing, still beautiful. Ed took a knife from the magnetic rack and cut into one of the Finnish loaves. The rye bread was thick and moist, like cake, and Ed dropped a couple of slices in the toaster. “Muldoon called today. From Amsterdam. I told him we were going to see the Greek movie. He said it was crap.” “Afraid it will make more money than his new one, probably,” Kate said. “He was complaining about his writer. The production rewrite guy who’s being paid a hundred and twenty-five grand a week to do bugger all.” “And?” Her question hung out there for a moment, Kate being in the business of believing that something, maybe even in the shambling, looming shape of Muldoon, would turn up. “Just that. Nothing more.” She hid whatever disappointment she might have felt. “He was checking that you’re O.K.,” she said. “Why would he worry?” Kate’s eyes regarded him coolly. “Muldoon cares for you.” “Sure he does. He’ll speak movingly at my funeral.” “Don’t talk like that,” Kate said. “He loves you.” Ed knew that she was probably right. He was thinking of the time, years before, when Muldoon himself, weeping, had seen no way forward. Ed had taken Muldoon’s hands and stroked his forehead, telling him he must walk toward the light. “Don’t give me that fucking New Age bullshit,” Muldoon had said, but he’d laughed. Ed smiled at the memory. With regret he found that something like hope was flooding his heart; at this point the despair was almost easier to deal with. “Oh, heck,” he said, tears springing to his eyes. He was starting again. “What?” “It’s nothing.” The rye bread popped up in the toaster. Ed took out the hot slices and buttered them slowly. Though Kate tried to be resolute, his panic sometimes infected her. And that wasn’t right. She was his best girl. “It’s Ivan Bunin,” he said, noticing on the countertop the book that had travelled with him from bedroom to bathroom to kitchen. What had Muldoon said about that one story, “The Gentleman from San Francisco”? “It’s about death, matey, about the indifference of death, about how you die, and death, basically, doesn’t give a shit.” Ed stopped his crying and suddenly shivered, as if a nameless vessel, carrying his own corpse, had just passed. “Here,” he said, handing Kate the book. “Sell this. Should bring a few bucks.” 
Something Like Happy The first time I saw Arthur McKechnie, he came into the bank with some checks. I had just started working there, fresh out of school and a bit nervous, I suppose, and I liked the way he behaved, all polite and quietly spoken, which was more than I could have said for some of the other customers. By the end of that first, almost wordless transaction, I had already decided he was someone I could like, but I had also noticed that he was a bit too different, one of those men who think too much about stuff that nobody else bothers with, or don’t pay enough attention to other people to understand what they might do, when push comes to shove. As he stood there with the pen in his hand, very obviously reading the badge pinned to my lapel, I found myself wanting to shake him out of the little dream he was in. Of course, I noticed the name the moment he handed over the paying-in slip. Arthur McKechnie. Everybody knew the McKechnies, and most people knew they were a bad lot. I knew them mainly because my sister Marie was going out with the worst of them. People often told Marie that Stan McKechnie wasn’t right for her, which was a mistake, because all that opposition only made her more determined to stick with him. Besides, Stan was good-looking, if you didn’t study him too closely. Not like this Arthur, who seemed put together from a kit, all angles and mess, with an odd cast to the eyes and a mouth that didn’t look altogether finished, like the mouth in a kid’s drawing. I didn’t know then that he was Stan’s little brother. Marie had never mentioned an Arthur, though she talked about the McKechnie sisters all the time. We all did. Some people thought the McKechnie girls were even worse than their brother, if only because they were nice-looking and dressed smart and, if you didn’t know them from old, you didn’t see what they were capable of until it was too late. With Stan, you knew what he was at first sight; it didn’t matter how well he scrubbed up. There was a meanness in his face that you couldn’t miss, unless you were Marie and wanted to miss it. Arthur handed over the money and the paying-in slip; then, when I had processed the transaction, he took the confirmation chit and, carefully, making no attempt to hide what he was doing, wrote down on the back what it said on my lapel badge. He was a slow writer. He held his pen in an awkward way, between the first two fingers of his left hand, and he angled his arm round to make the letters, printing them out large: “FIONA, TRAINEE.” He didn’t seem to care that I could see what he was doing. When he was done, he looked up and nodded. “Is there anything else I can help you with today?” I asked, not sure whether I was amused or annoyed. He shook his head. His voice, when he talked, was soft. “Not today, thanks,” he said, with an odd, even suggestive emphasis on “today.” He smiled then; it was a tight, secretive kind of smile, but it wasn’t mean, and I could see that he didn’t think there was anything out of the ordinary in what he had just done. He wasn’t being smart, or impolite. He’d just written my name on the back of his confirmation slip, the way a child would, for reasons of his own that had nothing to do with anybody else. I wanted to say something, but I couldn’t find the right words. I just shook my head ever so slightly and looked out to the line for the next customer—and Arthur McKechnie turned to go, that inward little smile on his face, a smile that I could see even then was the sign not only of a secret happiness but also of his inevitable fall. I’m not saying I knew what that fall would be, or claiming that I had some kind of premonition; God knows human beings are made for falling, and most human beings in that town were going to fall sooner rather than later. But I did see something out of the ordinary, and I’m sorry now that I didn’t take more notice. I asked Marie about Arthur when I got home that night. She was preoccupied, getting ready to go out with Stan, so I thought she’d just shrug it off, but she stopped putting on her makeup and sat looking at my reflection in the mirror, her eyeliner suspended in midair. “Arthur?” she said. “Where did you come across him, for God’s sake?” “He came into the bank today,” I said. “Oh, yeah?” Her hand dropped and she grimaced. “Well, don’t be getting interested in him. Stan says he’s a nutter.” “So who is he, then?” I said, picking up some clothes that were scattered around the place. I was always picking up after Marie, even now, when we didn’t share a room anymore. “He’s Stan’s brother, of course,” she said. “He’s really pissed Stan off, though.” “Oh.” I folded her powder-blue sweater and put it away in the chest of drawers. “Why’s that?” “Something to do with money,” she said. She watched as I gathered up a pile of obvious laundry. “Why? You’re not really interested, are you?” I snorted. “Of course not,” I said. “I just don’t remember you ever mentioning that Stan had a brother.” “Yeah, well.” A worried look crossed her face. “There’s not much to talk about. I hardly noticed him at first. He’s hardly ever there when I go round. When he is, he just sits in a corner, reading.” The thought of it made her shiver. “Stan’s old man says Arthur’s not a real McKechnie. He says Margaret must have got him from some tinker woman she met outside the off-license.” She started working on her makeup again. “It might even be true, for all I know. I mean, he’s nothing like Stan.” “So why is Stan annoyed with him?” Marie shook her head. “Search me,” she said. “Anyway, I’ve got to hurry. I’m going to be late.” I studied her as she applied the finishing touches to her face. She wasn’t pretty, but she tried hard. She had been working on the assembly line for three years, and though she would never have admitted it, she was jealous of me, having a good job at the bank. For her, that meant I had a future. Of course, I couldn’t tell her that a future didn’t mean as much to me as she thought it did. It was a good job, and everybody said I should be grateful; most girls from my background ended up with no prospects, just eight hours a day on the assembly line. People were always saying how lucky I was, as if I had won the lottery or something. “Where are you going, anyway?” I asked. She stood up and gave a little twirl. “No idea,” she said. “I don’t think Stan’s got any money.” “Well,” I said. “Maybe he should ask Arthur for a loan.” I smiled sweetly. “Ha-ha,” she said. “Very funny.” Marie had never thought much of me, or my taste, when it came to matters of the heart. It was probably fair to say that I was better-looking than her, and the teachers at school had always referred to me as the smart one, but it’s no big secret that, with boys, giving out the right signals matters more than looks or brains. Just before this, I’d been going out with a boy called Jack, but when it didn’t work out I felt an odd relief, as if I’d been released from the need to maintain some minor but time-consuming pretense. Marie had always liked the idea of love; even at nine, she’d had a boyfriend, a kid called Tony Ross, who gave her cards at Christmas and on her birthday. All through her early teens, she had very obviously liked boys, and they had liked her, mostly because boys like to be liked. For Marie, intelligence in a boyfriend was the worst kind of liability, and the few boys I did bring home knew how to write their own names and do basic arithmetic, at the very least. Which was more than anybody could say for Stan, and this was one of the reasons that my father got so angry with Marie a few days after I met Arthur, before he left for his shift at the works. “Stan McKechnie will never amount to anything,” he said, in his customary, quiet but final style. “He can’t keep a job, he doesn’t know how to handle money, he wants something for nothing. Someday he’ll find out that the world doesn’t owe him a living. You steer clear of him, you hear?” Marie always seemed genuinely surprised that people thought so ill of Stan; after all, she would say, the McKechnies weren’t the worst people on the estate, not by a long way. Stan had been unlucky: his mum had died when he was at a vulnerable age, and his sisters had spoiled him rotten. His dad was a bit of a rogue, everybody knew that, a rogue with a liking for the bottle, but Stan was doing the best he could, and he had big plans. He just needed a break, that was all. Of course, it was sad listening to her talk like that, and I’m not sure she even convinced herself much of the time. The fact was that after she had chosen Stan she couldn’t have let go, even if she’d wanted to. She didn’t want to have to admit she had made a mistake; she couldn’t be seen to give in to pressure. Even when the rumor about Bobby Curran started going around, she refused to believe that Stan was involved. “People shouldn’t spread stories,” she said. “Not unless they know all the facts.” The facts, it turned out, were fairly straightforward. Bobby Curran had been drinking in the White Swan when Des Cronin and his brothers came by. There had been bad blood between Des and Bobby since they’d got into a drunken argument about a motorcycle at Dave Mooney’s Christmas party. Everybody knew the affair wasn’t over, but nothing happened until that night in the Swan, six months later, when Des and his brothers found Bobby alone and half-cut in a place where he hardly ever drank. The Cronins were too scared of Bobby to have a square go with him; even that night, when it was three against one, they didn’t do anything right away, because none of them were carrying. They couldn’t have fought it out with fists and boots, like in the old days—they had to be armed. Since Des lived right across the road, all that was needed was someone to keep an eye on Bobby so he didn’t leave while the Cronins ran back to Des’s flat for some blades. Stan was the one who kept Bobby talking while the boys got themselves ready. Then, when Bobby went out back to the toilets, he gave the Cronins the signal and they went in. It was over in seconds: Bobby probably didn’t even know what hit him. The Cronins ran out, their clothes covered in blood, but nobody tried to stop them. Jim the Landlord came around the bar and went out the back to see what had happened, and he did first aid on Bobby while somebody called the police and most of his custom melted away, not wanting to be there when the law arrived. The only one who stayed put was Stan McKechnie. He watched the police come in, and he watched the body being taken out, and he never batted an eyelid. Nobody knows who spread it about that he’d been involved, and nobody could say for sure that the story was true, but everybody believed it—which meant that it didn’t matter whether it was true or not. It was a summer of hard, yellowish heat. The air was never quite clear anyway, because of the works, but this year it was thick and dry, like a fine material wrapped around my face and arms. The bank was supposed to be air-conditioned, but the system didn’t really work; by the end of the day, I was desperate to get out to somewhere cool and wash away the thick gauze of heat on my skin. Sometimes I just went home and showered, then sat by a half-open window waiting for the night, Marie out on the town with Stan, my parents on back shift at the works or sitting downstairs watching game shows. But now and again I would go out to the old swimming hole, the place everybody called the Twenty Two, and spend half an hour or so in the water, not really swimming so much as hanging there, suspended in the rumor of coolness that rose from the depths below. Everybody knew about the place; when I was in school, we had spent weekend afternoons out there, five or six of us going together to swim and talk and smoke cigarettes, trying out love and friendship and loneliness like teen-agers in a pop song or a movie, but we always got home in time for supper, and we spent the evenings elsewhere, at clubs and discos and pubs, dressed in the clothes we thought suited us, waiting to be seen by boys we thought we liked. Nobody ever went swimming at the Twenty Two in the evening, but that was the best time when the weather was hot. There was a current that flowed through the hole—a current that nobody could quite explain, some underground run or spring—and it was cold and quick, a near-animal force moving and turning in the water. I had always felt it, as if something alive were brushing against my skin, coming up out of the depths to pull at my legs or encircle my feet. It wasn’t just a surface motion, it was bone deep, a force with a shape of its own. Maybe it was a great hank of river weed turning below in the cold current, maybe it was just the way gravity works in water, but it felt like something that matched me exactly, the same shape and weight and volume, and it always seemed as if that something came to life the moment I stepped into the water. On the few occasions when I came across other people at the Twenty Two, I felt cheated, as if I had looked out of the window at home and discovered a gang of kids passing a bottle back and forth on our lawn. Mostly, though, I got to be alone. I liked to get there at about six-thirty or seven, when people were still having supper or watching television, and I would just slip into the water and swim around in circles to get cool. It wasn’t exercise, like swimming in a pool. I just liked being in the water and feeling that echo of myself deep down in the current, matching my every stroke, or falling still when I stopped moving. Sometimes I swam out to the middle and stayed there, treading water, listening to the quiet that surrounded me, a hiatus in the air, like a held breath. If other people came along while I was swimming, I would hear them long before they got to me, and I would just doggy-paddle over to the bank and get my stuff together so the moment wouldn’t be spoiled. I’d never seen Arthur out there. I’d never seen him anywhere other than the bank, so it was a surprise when I caught sight of him one evening coming out of the water, white and strangely angular, in a pair of pale-blue shorts and a T-shirt, his hair plastered down over his forehead, his arms and chest glistening. I was about twenty yards away when I saw him, and before I could think it through I ducked in among some bushes. I was hoping he hadn’t noticed me, I suppose, because it was embarrassing, meeting him like that, but he’d seen me, all right. I’m pretty sure he saw me before I saw him—he’d been watching me coming along the track, watching in complete silence, standing still in the cool water, waiting to see what would happen. I thought he wanted to embarrass me, just to see what I would do. That couldn’t have been true, though, or not altogether true anyway, because he turned quickly and swam away as soon as he saw that I’d seen him. He was a good swimmer, easy and lithe, like some animal that belonged to the water, some creature of trust and grace; it was only a matter of seconds before he reached the center and dived, vanishing into the dark water as if there were a way out down there, some exit that only he knew. One minute he was there, the next he was gone, leaving barely a ripple behind. I didn’t know what to do. I stared at the point where he had disappeared, waiting for him to come up for air, curious to see if he would call out to me, or wave, or whether he would just dive again, and keep on diving till I left. It struck me then that I would have done exactly what he was doing if the roles had been reversed. I imagine I could have stayed down there for a minute or so, maybe more. Not long enough, though. I don’t know how long Arthur stayed down, but it was more than a minute. More than five minutes, probably. I kept thinking he would have to come up soon, but he didn’t. He stayed under. The thought crossed my mind that the current had caught him and dragged him away; I even imagined having to go and get help, or having to dive in and save him when he came up half drowned and struggling for his life, but I didn’t do anything. I just stood there. Maybe he had some trick, like that thing you see in old films, where the spy or whoever sits for hours underwater, breathing through a hollowed stick or a reed. Maybe he was ready to drown rather than admit defeat and come up again, feeling awkward and cheated. I didn’t know, but I couldn’t quite manage to believe he was in any danger, and after a while I didn’t want to see his face, because I knew I had stolen a private moment from him. I wished I could have said something, maybe called out that I was leaving and he could come out now, but I didn’t say a word. I just turned around and walked back the way I came, following the track up to the road, with the cool of the water hole at my back, and a sound I almost heard, like a bird taking flight off the surface of the water, or a fish breaking the calm in the first gray of the evening, leaping out into the dizzy, unfamiliar world, to snatch its prize. The summer passed, the hot days fading into a wet, sticky autumn. I saw Arthur at the bank from time to time: sometimes he spoke, mostly he just handed over his little bundle of checks and the paying-in slip, with the amounts made out in his neat, slightly childish handwriting, but he didn’t seem as distant, or as shy, as he had when he first came in. After our encounter at the Twenty Two, it was as if we had a secret between us, something we both knew about but had promised not to mention, and though nothing ever happened between us, I realized, come September, that I liked him a little, even if it wasn’t a liking that Marie would have understood. Somewhere between the last warmth of the summer and the damp cool of Halloween, I noticed a change in Marie, and I knew it had something to do with Stan. I didn’t know at first, though, that it also had something to do with Arthur. Stan had never treated Arthur as a brother, by all accounts, but until that summer he had mostly just ignored him. As far as Stan was concerned, Arthur really was the boy in his father’s joke: a scrawny kid the tinkers didn’t want, sitting in a corner of the kitchen, dreaming his life away, never saying a word. Then, that summer, everything changed. The first trouble was about money: Stan never had any, but that was no great shame till his brother started coming home with pockets full of checks and cash from his odd jobs. What was worse was that Arthur just kept squirrelling it all away in the bank: after he’d paid for his digs—which Stan almost never did—he saved whatever was left, going out every day with a packed lunch of peanut-butter sandwiches and not coming home till late, still not saying anything, but happy in a way that Stan didn’t understand, happy, or something like it, as if he had lain awake one night and hatched some foolproof scheme, some plan for a future that Stan couldn’t even have imagined. That went on for several weeks, and it drove Stan crazy, but he didn’t say anything to Arthur. He just took it out on Marie, sulking when they went out on dates to the Hearth or the Nags. Sometimes he’d take her out, then he’d leave her at a table with a couple of the other girls while he went wandering around the lounge, talking to his mates and doing deals, the way the old married men did with their wives. He’d buy her half a lager top, then he’d be off, playing pool with somebody Marie didn’t know or chatting to Jenny, behind the bar. He’d been out with Jenny once, he said. Now they were just good friends. Marie could have sat out the sulks, if that had been all there was to it—but suddenly, with winter approaching, Arthur changed again. First, he bought a guitar. “A bloody guitar,” she said. “I mean, he doesn’t even know how to play.” “What kind of guitar?” I said. She looked at me as if I were part of this great conspiracy against her happiness. “How do I know?” she said. “What difference does it make?” I shook my head. I’d noticed a change in Arthur a week before, when he had come into the bank and, for the first time, made a withdrawal. I wouldn’t have thought much about it, except that he didn’t seem to know how to get money out of his account. He had to ask. “Is it an electric guitar or an acoustic is what I mean,” I said. Marie thought a moment. “Acoustic,” she said. “He just sits there, in the front room, strumming. Stan can’t stand it. None of them can.” “Maybe he’s going to start a band,” I said. Marie snorted. “That’ll be the day,” she said. It turned out Arthur had no intention of starting a band. Stan asked him once, when Marie was there; it was an ugly little scene, with Stan and his dad poking fun at Arthur while he sat at the kitchen table, stroking the guitar strings, with his head turned away toward the window. Marie said he didn’t say anything—he just sat there with a sad little smile on his face as if he felt sorry for them all, though you could see he was trying not to cry. She almost felt sorry for him herself, she said, but then he’d asked for it, really, what with his stupid guitar and his weird new clothes. The last time I’d seen Arthur at the bank he’d been dressed as usual, in black jeans and a navy-blue shirt. “What clothes?” I asked her. “Oh, God,” Marie said. “You should see him. He’s completely changed. Bright stripy shirt, this weird-looking suède jacket. At least, I think it’s suède.” “When did that start?” “Not long ago,” she said. “He’s completely different. He plays his guitar all day, then he goes out, nobody knows where. Stan’s dad says he’s got himself a fancy woman.” I shook my head. I felt strangely disappointed in Arthur, maybe for doing all this stuff in front of his dad and Stan, and maybe because I could just see him with some woman, making a fool of himself. “I don’t think so,” I said. “Not Arthur.” Marie laughed. It was a cruel laugh. “Oh, yes,” she said. “He’s fairly come out of his shell now he’s got a bit of money.” She gave me a hard look. “You missed your chance there,” she said. I was annoyed then. Not with her but with myself, for getting involved in the conversation in the first place. It didn’t matter to me what Arthur McKechnie did. Good luck to him, if he wanted to blow his hard-earned money on the latest fashions and a guitar he couldn’t play. I looked at Marie, and I saw the glint of nasty pleasure in her eyes. “You going out tonight?” I asked her. “Of course,” she said. I could see her thinking, What a stupid question. “With Stan?” She rolled her eyes. “Yeah,” she said. I nodded. “I’m not the only one who missed my chance,” I said. I regretted saying it as soon as it was out. Marie’s face went very bare, then she laughed. “You’re pathetic,” she said, but it wasn’t that convincing, and I felt even worse, not just for her but for myself, that I could be so petty. We found out later that Arthur McKechnie mostly just got dressed up in his odd clothes and sat alone in a Chinese restaurant with a half bottle of white wine and a plate of crispy fried duck. Or he would go to a church social and hide in a corner, watching the people dance. That was probably where he met Helen Walsh, and that was when the real trouble started. It wasn’t much of a story, really. It seems that when Arthur was still in primary school Stan McKechnie and Helen Walsh were in middle school together. The Walshes lived on Gloucester Way then, two doors along from the McKechnies, and though they were never friendly—Joe Walsh always saw himself as a cut above—Stan decided that he and Helen were an item, trailing along to school beside her, trying to make conversation, doing stuff to impress her, acting as if they had something more in common than a street address. I don’t think Helen ever took any of this seriously, but by the time he reached third year Stan was going around talking about her as his girlfriend, and he was upset when Joe Walsh did well and moved his family off the estate to one of those so-called executive houses with a separate dining room and French windows at the back leading onto a patio with raised flower beds and a walled yard. All the McKechnies had been upset, in their own way, to see the Walshes get on: Stan’s dad resented Joe’s success, saying he was just a brownnose anyhow, and the sisters put it about that May Walsh had a fondness for vodka. Stan hated the Walshes more than any of them. “Stan’s not happy,” Marie told me one day after work. “Arthur keeps taking his stuff.” She shook her head. “Big mistake.” “What do you mean, taking his stuff?” I couldn’t imagine Arthur as a thief and, if he was, I couldn’t imagine Stan having anything he might want. “Just stupid stuff,” she said. “Clothes and stuff. He says he’s borrowing it, but Stan doesn’t let anybody borrow his things. Can you imagine?” I shook my head to confirm that I couldn’t. “And then he wears Stan’s best shirt to go out on a date with that stuck-up Walsh bitch.” “He didn’t.” “Oh, yes.” “No,” I said. “I mean, it wouldn’t have been a date, would it? Can you imagine Helen with one of the McKechnies?” Marie shot me an ugly look. “What’s that supposed to mean?” she said. “You know what I mean,” I said. “I’m not talking about you and Stan—” “Yes, you are,” she said. “That’s exactly what you’re talking about.” She lit a cigarette. She didn’t usually smoke in the house, in case Dad caught her. “But me and Stan are happy. I don’t care what Dad says. I love him and I’m going to marry him.” She sounded like a little girl in the school playground. “And you can take a look at yourself before you start judging other people.” She turned away slightly and stood looking out of the window, with her cigarette hand pressed to her cheek. I didn’t see any point in replying to that. I wasn’t angry with her—I wasn’t upset. For a moment, I even wanted to go over and give her a hug or something, but we didn’t do that kind of thing in our family. “I’m not judging anybody,” I said, after a while. “I just want you to be happy.” She looked at me then, and I could see she was close to tears. “Happy,” she said quietly, as if it were some foreign word whose meaning she couldn’t quite remember. She laughed. “Happy,” she said again. She took a draw on the cigarette, and, in the smoke and the early evening light, she looked almost pretty, like a girl in a television show the night before she runs away from everything, written out of the script, to begin a new life somewhere else. It snowed early that year: a freak blizzard, a beautiful anomaly. It was the kind of snow you see in films, white and perfect and deep, the cars moving slowly along white roads, the people coming out of their houses in the morning or stopping on the High Street to notice the light. For a while, it was as if the works didn’t exist; the snow just kept falling, white upon white upon white, and nothing was gray or smoky or tainted enough to leave a lasting stain. It really was beautiful. People came into the bank in coats and gloves, brushing the snowflakes off their shoulders and hair at the door, smiling to themselves, gladdened by the brightness of the day. You could see the child in every face, a buried life rising to the surface, a lightness about the mouth and eyes, a childish sweetness. Everyone seemed happier, or almost everyone. Stan McKechnie wasn’t happy. I would hear about it from Marie from time to time—the petty details, the black moods, the muttered threats—but I had stopped paying attention. It just seemed too ridiculous, in all that snow and light. The snow didn’t last, though. It was replaced by a gray lull, all smoke and pig iron. So what I remember now about the day Stan McKechnie almost killed his brother is how the light changed after the snow melted. It was a day that could have happened only in a town like ours: the sun was bright, warm even, but there was a chemical haze in the air, a blurred, dusty quality to the light that we knew from having lived so long in the shadow of the works. That was what I noticed about that morning, that pale haze and the thin ferrous smell that became a taste in the mouth, part rust, part churchyard—but there was something else that day, something I hadn’t felt before. If I had to describe it, I’d say it was a sense of how things must have been before any of us came to be in that place, a stubborn beauty in the light that filled the trees, a sense of the land around us, with its buried dead and its livestock and clouds and fence posts, there before we were and treating us as an exception to the norm, an ugly but fairly minor crease in the fabric of things, irrelevant to the larger picture. The attack happened because of Stan’s black sweater. That was what people said, at least, when it was all over: “That Stan McKechnie, he almost murdered his brother, all because of a sweater.” Marie told me about the sweater while we were both getting ready to go out. That afternoon, Arthur had borrowed Stan’s aftershave, then put on the new black sweater that Stan had bought the weekend before, even though Stan had told him a thousand times that he didn’t want anybody touching his things. Nobody knew where Arthur had gone now, but Stan had rung Marie up and told her he was going to do something about it once and for all. Marie had tried to calm him down, but she knew there was no point; Stan had been heading for a big blowout for weeks, she said, and she knew trouble was coming. Nobody could have predicted how far it would go, and nobody would ever understand what had led up to the final moments. It would be just another story people told each other, another cautionary tale about the McKechnies, how in that family one brother could kick the other senseless over a borrowed sweater. Marie was so wrapped up in her own worries that she didn’t even notice I was getting ready to go out. Then, when she had finished talking, and I’d told her not to worry, that it would all blow over, she realized. “You got a date?” she asked, blurting it out, not hiding her surprise. I laughed. “Don’t sound so shocked,” I said. “Who with?” “None of your business,” I said. “Oh, God!” She put her hands to her face. “It’s not Arthur, is it?” I looked at her. She was serious, but I could see in her face that she wasn’t concerned about me—she just didn’t want this mess to get any bigger than it already was. I shook my head. “It’s not, is it?” she asked again. “Please tell me it’s not.” I was tempted then to tell her it was, just to see the look on her face, but I didn’t. I just shook my head again. “Don’t be daft,” I said. It wasn’t a real date, anyway. Somebody from the bank had asked me out, a tall, thin man called Peter who worked in business and foreign. He was a bit older than me, but I’d been bored and surprised when he asked, and I’d accepted his invitation to go for a drink at the Falcon before I even registered what was happening. That’s how it goes in the workplace. All these office romances start out of boredom and wanting something to happen to break the monotony. As things turned out, it was a pretty monotonous evening, and I was regretting my mistake long before Arthur came into the lounge bar and stood waiting for someone to serve him. He was alone, all dressed up in Stan’s black sweater and a pair of greenish trousers; maybe he was meeting somebody, maybe he was just out to see what was happening. One thing I knew for sure was he wasn’t on a date with Helen Walsh. As I sat listening to Peter going on about his plans for the future, I watched Arthur order his drink, a lager top, and it occurred to me that I didn’t really know him. I told myself that it would be a mistake to get mixed up in his feud with Stan, that I really ought to mind my own business, but I was bored with Peter’s supposed prospects, and I was grateful for any excuse to get away from him, if only for a few minutes. Peter didn’t seem to mind when I told him there was someone I had to talk to. “Family business,” I said, by way of explanation. He just nodded and took a sip of his beer. Maybe he was bored with me, too. Arthur didn’t see me coming. He hadn’t even noticed me when he came in, or maybe he had and didn’t want me to know. When he finally turned his head and saw me I knew I was making a mistake. Only it was too late to go back. I gave him a serious look. “Nice sweater,” I said. He put his glass down on the bar and looked at me. He knew who I was, but he was surprised that I’d spoken. “Thanks,” he said. “It’s not mine. I just borrowed it.” “It suits you,” I said. “Thanks.” “You know, Stan’s looking for you,” I said. The sooner I said what I had to say, I thought, the sooner we could get away from each other. He looked puzzled. “Sorry?” he said. The moment he spoke, though, he worked out what I meant. He shook his head. “Oh, no,” he said. “Really,” I said. “He’s been building up to something for a long time.” I felt stupid: I sounded like somebody out of a soap. What was I doing? None of this was any of my business. I glanced back at Peter. He had gone over to play the fruit machine. I turned back to Arthur. “It’s none of my business,” I said. “I just thought you ought to know.” “You’ve got it all wrong,” he said. “Stan is my brother.” He studied my face. “We’re brothers,” he said. “I know,” I said. I wanted to say more, but I couldn’t think of anything. For a moment, I thought Arthur was going to laugh; then, as if noticing me for the first time, as if I were some puzzle he’d been gathering clues about for weeks and had only just solved, he gave me a serious, almost concerned look. “It’s all right,” he said. “I know you only mean well, but Stan’s my brother. He knows I wouldn’t do him any harm.” I should have given up then. That would have been the sensible thing. I don’t know now why I carried on. “I don’t think he does,” I said. “He’s looking for you right now.” He smiled softly. “How do you know that?” he asked. “My sister told me.” I really was embarrassed to hear myself saying that, like a kid telling tales. I knew it was hopeless, and I wanted to stop talking and just take hold of him and lead him somewhere, into the shadows for safety, out to the Twenty Two, where he could hide under the water until the danger had passed. “Ah.” He leaned toward me, and the light from the optics shifted on his face a little, so he looked softer, less defined. “Marie is your sister.” I nodded. For a moment, I thought that I had got through to him—that my relationship to Marie had convinced him that I knew what I was talking about. For a moment, he put his head down and stared at the ground, and I thought he was thinking about what I had said. For a moment, maybe he was. I have no idea what went through his mind then, but when that moment had passed he was looking at me, smiling again, shaking his head almost imperceptibly. “Thanks for your concern,” he said. “But I’ll be all right.” He put his glass down on the bar; it was still half full, but he left it there and started away. “Honest,” he said. He seemed disappointed then, but not with Stan. He was disappointed with me, maybe because he thought this was some game I was playing, some elaborate ruse to get his attention. That was possible. He did remember the Twenty Two, and he’d noticed me in the bank; maybe he liked me, and my talking to him about such things had made him feel awkward. All this was going through my mind as he turned to leave, but there was something else, something that I couldn’t have explained. I didn’t register it then, not in words, but I think that was when I knew that he was already gone and that nothing anybody could have told him would have made the least difference. Because, for all the most ordinary, all the most banal reasons, he was doomed. He was an innocent, a lost cause, a stranger in the only place he had ever known, and he couldn’t do anything about it. Under different circumstances, Arthur McKechnie would have been one of those people you read about in the newspaper: the schizoid boy who jumps out of a window thinking he can fly, the mad explorer who crosses the Arctic with nothing but a rucksack and a pair of crampons. He glanced back as he was going, and I could see that he knew as well as I did that there was nothing more to say, but he said it anyway. “Be seeing you,” he said. An hour later, Stan caught up with him. I’m pretty sure Stan didn’t intend to hurt his own brother as badly as he did, not over a borrowed sweater. But then it wasn’t his intentions that mattered. He’s supposed to have told the police that he doesn’t remember what he did that night, but there were about a dozen witnesses, and they all gave more or less the same account: Arthur had gone on to the Hearth after he left the Falcon, and he was walking back home when he met Stan outside the kebab place on Gloucester Road. Stan had run up, shouting and throwing punches; Arthur had just stood there, not saying anything, taking the first couple of blows as if it were some kind of game—he had a strange look on his face, people said, an odd half smile that nobody could understand, though they all saw it, and they all said the same thing afterward, that it was the smile that made Stan crazy, that odd little smile that seemed to say Arthur wasn’t going to take what was happening seriously, not Stan’s anger or the punches raining in on him. Some of the people who saw it all said he must have been a bit simple, just to stand there grinning like that, provoking his attacker and not doing anything to defend himself. When it was over, Stan didn’t make any real effort to get away. He stood awhile, looking around at the crowd of people who had been watching it all, as if he were surprised they hadn’t done anything to stop him. People said afterward that they’d thought Arthur was dead, the way he just lay there on the pavement, all twisted around and not moving. The ones who were there at the start knew they should have done something to stop it, but they all just stood watching, about eight or ten at the beginning and then more, the entire queue from the kebab shop pouring out onto the pavement to see what was going on. None of them tried to stop the attack, and nobody tried to take hold of Stan when he turned away and walked off down the road. He wasn’t running; he wasn’t even in a hurry. Somebody said later that he could have been out for a stroll, except that he had blood all over his coat and hands. He didn’t go toward his house, he walked the other way, and he didn’t stop walking until the police picked him up, an hour later. When they took him in, apparently, he told them he hadn’t meant to do it. He hadn’t known what he was doing, he said. He just saw red. After Stan was arrested, Marie wouldn’t leave the house. Everybody was talking about what had happened, telling old stories about the bad things Stan had done in the past, about the drug dealing and the breaking and entering when he was in school, or that time with the Cronins and Bobby Curran in the Swan. Some of the people who had witnessed the attack—the ones who had stood by and done nothing—were even saying Stan was getting off lightly, because he should have been up for attempted murder instead of G.B.H. Meanwhile, Marie stayed off work and sat in her room with the radio on, though I doubt she ever heard it. Sometimes she came downstairs, still in her pajamas and dressing gown in the middle of the afternoon. She didn’t say much, and when she did speak she would say crazy stuff. “I wish I could just disappear,” she’d say. “I wish the earth would just open and swallow me up.” We all knew that something needed to be done to get her out of this depression, but nobody wanted to take the first step. So we waited. Sometimes I’d have a talk with Mum, where we would go through all the usual arguments, then one of us would say something reassuring, and we’d get on with our lives. “It’ll pass,” Mum would say. “She’s bound to be upset, after all.” Or I would point out that my sister, sitting upstairs in her dressing gown, was better off now that Stan was behind bars. “If that’s what he could do to his brother,” I would say, starting a sentence I would never need to finish, and waiting for the little grimace of horror that signalled her agreement. I’m not saying we didn’t care. It was just that we didn’t know what to do, and we couldn’t really face the awkwardness of having to find out. Meanwhile, Marie grieved, and we went about our business, pretending there was nothing wrong. They were probably doing much the same thing in the McKechnie household. The elder son had been locked up, and the younger was in a hospital ward; all the old man could do was sit indoors and hope that the world passed him by till it found something else to talk about. Even the sisters were ashamed of what Stan had done, and they had always doted on him. I heard they all went as a family to visit Arthur in the hospital, and he wouldn’t even see them. He just waited till he was well enough, then he came into the bank, withdrew all the money that was left in his account, and walked back out into the gray afternoon, to God knows where. That was the last time I saw him, the day he came for his money, and he had a dark, set look to his eyes that frightened me a little. He didn’t come to my position to make the withdrawal. He waited till another cashier was free and went to her. When he’d finished the transaction, he put the money in his coat pocket and muttered something under his breath; then he left, without even a backward glance. Nobody knows where he went. The best way to think of it is that he just disappeared. The week before Christmas, it snowed again. I had gone up to the shops, and I was walking home, crossing the park on Weymouth Road, when it began, thick and fast from the moment it started falling, settling on the grass and the thin, wet shrubs around the playground. It kept falling all along the street, whiting out the gardens, lying in thick folds on the hedges, and I couldn’t help but slow my pace, just to be out in all that white, watching things melt into this perpetual motion, so thick and fast by the time I got to my own front gate that I could hardly see. Everything was disappearing into the flow of it, houses and parked cars and pavement; behind me, the town was nothing but a rumor, a faint aftertaste of iron and smoke and a shadowy mass dwindling into the blizzard. This snow was completely different from the snow we’d had in November: back then, it had been all brightness and visible marks, tracks and scuffs in the white turning to plum blue and black as darkness fell, but this one was dark from the first, a new variant of dark: white as it lay, yes, but already plum blue and black as it tumbled down out of the low clouds. That first snow had been the snow in a film; this was the snow in a dream. It was bitterly cold. I hadn’t noticed when I first went out, but I felt it now, a pure cold seeping into my bones—and as the snow erased the gardens around me, I could feel this pure cold singling me out, isolating me on that street and erasing me, flake by flake, moment by moment. Marie had said she wanted to disappear, but she hadn’t meant it; what she really wanted was to go back to the time before she met Stan, when life seemed full of possibilities. She didn’t want to be invisible, she wanted to be seen as she saw herself, not as a character in a local news story. When she said she wished the earth would swallow her up, I knew that her shame wouldn’t last, and that what had happened to her wouldn’t matter much in a year’s time. She would meet someone else, and she would get married and live as our mother had lived; people would think of her as somebody’s wife, and then somebody’s mother, and she wouldn’t be invisible, ever. But I would. I would be invisible. It was already happening, in this relentless, quick snow; I was already disappearing, and not just disappearing into that whiteness but into everything around me. Like a ghost in a film, melting into the scenery, I was starting to vanish from my life, not by going away somewhere but just by staying where I was and doing what I had always done. Working at the bank, making dinner, reading my books, swimming at the Twenty Two in the summer, walking in the snow in the winter. It had something to do with Arthur, all this vanishing, which was ridiculous but also true. Unlike Marie, I didn’t want the earth to open and swallow me up, but I knew I was starting to fade away—and it wasn’t such a bad feeling, after all, to be disappearing. It wasn’t a bad thing, and maybe it was all I had ever wanted. To stay where I was and disappear into the wallpaper. To want nothing—not a good job, not a husband or children. Not money or happiness. Not what my parents would have called a future. My entire life would be like those mornings when the postman comes and stands at the door, sorting through a pile of cards and letters; he thinks nobody is at home, because the house is so quiet, but someone is actually in the kitchen the whole time, listening to him fumble with the mail as she makes tea, or butters toast, not quite happy, if you want to talk about happiness, but not unhappy, either. It wasn’t the kind of thing you see in films or on television, but it seemed good to me, as I stood there in the snow, vanishing imperceptibly into the life I had not chosen but would not refuse now that I knew what it was. When I got inside, I found Marie sitting in the kitchen, watching the kettle boil. Her face was white and empty, no makeup, her hair a mess. The windows were all misted up, and it occurred to me that she had probably been sitting there awhile. “Are you O.K.?” I asked. She looked at me, but she didn’t speak. She had been in the middle of making tea, it seemed, when I came in, but she had forgotten what she was doing, or maybe decided that she couldn’t be bothered. “Can I get you something?” I asked. She shook her head. “I keep thinking about Stan,” she said. I nodded. “Of course you do,” I said. I took a step closer. I thought about reaching out and touching her, on the arm, or the shoulder, then decided against it. She laughed softly. “It didn’t suit him,” she said. “I told him when he bought it. I said right away, when he tried it on, ‘It doesn’t suit you, Stan.’ ” She looked at me. “Anyway,” she said, “it was only a sweater.” I nodded again. I wanted to cross over to her and do something, but I didn’t know what. After a while, I fetched tea bags down from the cupboard, and finished making the tea. Then I put four slices of bread in the toaster. It was quiet now, no talk, no sound, only the silent continuum of snow at the window—and I wanted to make her see how beautiful it was, if not always, then at least for now, but when I turned around she was asleep in her chair, her head flopped back, her arms dangling at her sides. It was like a balancing act, something she had refined over the years, and no matter how precarious it looked I knew she would not fall. I considered taking my tea through to the sitting room, but I decided to stay and keep her company. Maybe she would wake up soon, and if she did maybe she would be hungry. That would be a good sign, I thought. It was always a good sign in books when people who had been depressed began eating again. It was the beginning of something: a new life, a recovery. I put four more slices of bread into the toaster and fetched marmalade and a brand-new pot of black-currant jam from the cupboard. When it was all ready, I carried my cup and the two plates of buttered toast to the table, one for her and one for me. I was hungry now, and I soon ate the portion I had made for myself, not bothering with the jam, just enjoying the taste of warm butter and crisp, fresh toast. It was delicious, like something from long ago, some childhood pleasure. Then, when I had finished that, I poured myself more tea, and because I was still hungry, and because I really did feel happy, sitting there in the quiet, watching the snow, I sneaked first one slice, then another, then all of the toast I had made for Marie, and ate it with the jam while it was still warm. 
The Stolen Pigeons The old Bousque woman always arrived precipitously, as if she were short on time. From Bugues, you could see her head rising in the distance, above the hedge of medlar trees that separated our land from that of her children. A narrow path crossed through this hedge, and at the opening was a little hill that she ascended and descended as nimbly as a young woman. Then she continued along a row of artichoke plants, her head bowed, always at that dramatic pace. It was as if she couldn’t slow down without falling. Her body was bent at the waist, thanks to the long winter afternoons she spent leaning over her fire, and her thin arms slid back and forth like the pendulums of a clock; they seemed too long now, even though they’d succumbed to the same shrinkage as the rest of her body. The poor old Bousque woman. She had become so small, at the end of her life, that she was barely taller than the artichoke plants. Every time we saw her, we said, “Look, here comes the old Bousque woman.” And every time we were surprised, as if the event were surprising for its very regularity. Well before she arrived, she’d call out a friendly word with what little voice she had left, which was shrill and rasping. And we’d respond at the top of our lungs, as if she were deaf. We never left off work in order to speak or listen to her—she simply came over to us and quite naturally began to help with whatever we were doing, all while talking away, telling some story. Sometimes, however, she’d take me aside and murmur to me what she didn’t dare say out loud: “Tell me, when do you think you’ll be leaving?” Because she liked us very much, she lived in fear that we would leave the area before she died. We had returned from far away, so far away that she didn’t even know exactly where, but she did know that a warm wind now blew through the pines of Bugues, comforting her old bones and giving her, at her advanced age, which was well past seventy-five, her fill of fantasy and intrigue, as well as her only real opportunity to go beyond the village. The friends of her youth were all more or less invalids now and were happier without her company. It has to be said that the old Bousque woman, as old as she was, had not become pious with age, an unusual state of affairs in this part of the country. You saw her only at Midnight Mass, because she liked nighttime, as well as celebrations, and as much as you liked her you couldn’t help disapproving a little. She was the first person in the entire area to venture our way, to create a bond with people like us, who had come back to Bugues after so many years of abandonment. Despite her incredible ignorance, her mind was still sharp, and filled with a pure form of curiosity. People were a little afraid of her, as one is afraid of those whose vision is clear and who retain everything, as one is afraid of life, with its inspirations, its unfathomable poetry. Which is why people chose to call her a gossip, when she was really a fantasist. My mother had more respect for her than for anyone else around. For us children, she came with the evening, which carried us back to the house, but she was also the old woman we locked our doors against, protecting ourselves from a night that she seemed to bewitch. Only her eyes were still intensely alive, in a face slashed with wrinkles, each one lined with a deep black furrow. Still, that extraordinary face was the only thing about her that was old, and it seemed that she’d never die—she had adapted so well to the years. But something awful did happen to her; it was the kind of story that she herself would surely have enjoyed telling, if it hadn’t nailed her down forever. It was at this fountain that her daughter-in-law, Jeanne Bousque, quenched her thirst. Jeanne hadn’t had, so to speak, a real childhood. Hers had been spent in a feverish wait for some power of her own; her marriage had given her back neither those lost years nor her joy. Still, she ruled in her house, and because she had been for so long unable to exert her authority over her own family, she now exerted it beyond all reason over the family of her husband. There were only four of them—the old woman, Jeanne, her husband, Louis, and their son, Jean—and the victory was a little hollow, to tell the truth. But what did that matter! So long as in the eyes of the village she was now viewed as the mistress of the house. You should have seen her toying with the old Bousque woman as if she were a child! The old woman was much too clever to get angry about it, since she knew that her son would never dare to side with her over his wife; nor would her grandson—he was only fourteen and had other things on his mind. So she cheerfully accepted her role in the household. But it was precisely her good mood, which nothing could subdue, that wounded the vanity of her daughter-in-law; it was as if the old woman were the only one who could make Jeanne question her own standing. From year to year, Jeanne’s tone with the old woman became sharper. She looked at her with wild eyes, her face eaten away by who knows what despair. If you had seen that little old woman, so lovable, so easy to take, you could never have imagined anyone hating her in that way! But if you asked the daughter-in-law for news of her she’d say, with a hypocritical sigh, “Well, of course, she’s getting old. Haven’t you noticed, she’s becoming dirty? She who was once so neat, I hear?” Or: “When Jean is older, we’ll give him the upstairs bedroom.” She’d point up at the old Bousque woman’s room, which she never visited. Despite all this, in the eyes of others in the village, the old Bousque woman remained the mistress of the house. Even though she had already passed all of her property on to her children, and was perfectly content to be fed and allowed to stay in her little room. One March day, as soon as she had finished her housework, Jeanne Bousque headed off toward the Pelgrin property, on the high plateau above the village. Normally, she took this route only on Sundays, on her way to Mass. So we were surprised to catch sight of her there on a weekday; plus, she was walking fast and barely greeting those she passed, for fear of being delayed along the way. She picked her way through the alfalfa and took the road that ran through the village. Then she began to climb the hill, following the path that snaked between the vines. She arrived at the property line that dominated the landscape at around eleven o’clock. Her face was red from the wind, and she was panting a little, having hurried through the long ascent. “Well, what kind wind has blown you our way, Mme. Bousque?” Once everyone began referring to her mother-in-law as “the old Bousque woman,” this one had become Mme. Bousque—because she was respected in the area, but also because she came from another village. She didn’t immediately answer the question. If, when she embarked on this errand, the words and sentences had been whirling around in her head, they had got themselves in order en route. And now she had it down—her story—commendably, having prepared it along the way. She wanted to make the most of it! Where was she going? She was carrying her seed as far as possible, in order to plant it in the most fertile spot—on the Pelgrins’ high plateau, from which the bit of gossip would be carried, like the wind, to at least three neighboring villages. Ah! She had good aim, Mme. Bousque—she knew her neighbors! “You know my cousins from Algeria . . .” Her haste and fatigue had left her so breathless that she had to begin again. “You know my cousins from Algeria, the ones who are supposed to arrive tonight? Imagine this: Last night, before going to bed, I prepared a pair of my best-looking, fattest pigeons—only the best for them! So I cook the birds, I put them away in the pantry, and I go to bed. In the middle of the night, I hear a noise downstairs. I give Louis a nudge, and we go down together. I even told him to bring his gun—you never know, you know, with all those railway workers going through here at night. . . .” The two Pelgrins were all ears. Their pupils burned like coals. “What do I see?” the Bousque woman continued. “I thought I was dreaming! Louis and I were speechless, paralyzed. The old woman! It was terrifying! Sitting on her stool, she was devouring my pigeons, with both hands, like this. . . . I barely recognized her, she looked so different. After a long time, she turned around. She froze when she saw us—I thought for a moment she might be in shock. But then she pulled herself together and ran out of the room—ran! She is spry, that old woman, you know. She took the stairs four at a time and locked herself up in her room.” “My goodness!” the Pelgrin woman said. “But she’s kept her wits about her for so long—who would have imagined such a thing!” But he—M. Pelgrin—spoke seriously, as the situation required. “So it’s all over for her, the old Bousque woman. She has lost it, just like that.” “It’s not as if I were depriving her of anything,” the mischief-maker said. “But, one day or another, age will get you. Some old people talk all day; others become misers. This one, her madness will be to steal food and stuff herself when she’s not even hungry. Well, it’s not so bad—it could have been a lot worse for us.” The old Bousque woman stayed in her room for several days. To those who were surprised not to see her around, Jeanne Bousque said, laughing, “Oh! With that pair of pigeons, she has eaten enough for two days, the poor old thing. . . . Well, it’s not that I begrudge her the food.” She said this loudly enough for her words to reach all the way up to the old woman’s attic room. . . . The old Bousque woman was ashamed. What had come over her? It was true that old age had finally got her, as her daughter-in-law said. The excessive appetite for pigeons that had overcome her suddenly, and the way she had devoured them, like an animal—she was doomed, for sure, and everyone knew it, everyone in Bugues, the village, the whole world knew it. . . . What a delicious thing it would have been for that little old woman to die just then. What a deliverance not to have to think anymore. But, unfortunately . . . For two days and two nights, she stupidly watched the sky, the clouds that passed before her, running the way the children of the village would doubtless run after her from now on. She watched, without seeing it, the enormous mid-March moon. Sitting at the center of her room, more hunched over than ever, she didn’t even dare to move her head, for fear of setting off the laughter that followed each of her movements and worried her ears. . . . According to her daughter-in-law, she tried to steal one more time, but everything was locked up that night—can you imagine! Then, the following day, depleted, the old woman resigned herself to coming downstairs; she took advantage of a moment when the house was empty, in the middle of the afternoon, like an animal whose hunger has forced it out of its hole. She humbly took her seat by the fire and stayed there. And, because from that day on she didn’t speak, nobody spoke to her, either; her son didn’t bother to wish her a good evening when he came back from the fields, and her grandson soon stopped kissing her when he got home from school, because she was no longer clean. My mother, tactfully, allowed the old woman to die without trying to see her again, but she was the only one to do so. No one else in the village could resist the pleasure of getting at least one more look at her. Fortunately, all she could see now was her fire. . . . She had become so gray, gray like her old companion; she was covered in ash—there was ash in the folds of her dress, in her hair, in all the wrinkles of her old skin. Whenever someone came to the Bousque house and made it as far as the kitchen, which was big and bright, her daughter-in-law always apologized for the corner where the old woman sat, which she could never manage to clean. “And if you could see her room,” she sighed. “A real sty.” Jeanne had to wait until the fall to clean the place; the old Bousque woman took eight long months to die, eight months of beautiful spring and summer; you’d almost have believed that she was doing it on purpose. But, in the end, that long wait only increased the delight that Jeanne Bousque experienced when she could finally put all of her mother-in-law’s rags in a pile in the middle of the courtyard and light them on fire, a big fire that spread smoke through the whole village and which she stirred from time to time with a long poker.
Teaching You know my mother. The girl stood beside his desk. She was one of those big-eyed kids. She’d always look a bit like a kid. By the time she was thirty-five, she’d be a strange-looking kid. —You know my mother, she said again. Now, though, she was one of those lovely kids. She’d stopped, hesitated, on her way past his desk to the door. The last out. She’d probably made sure of that. It was her first full day in the secondary school. He finished what he was doing. Searching for a red Biro at the bottom of his bag. And he looked at her. —Is that right? he said. —Yeah. He looked for her mother in the kid’s face. Big eyes. He stopped looking. He could feel the sweat on his forehead. —Who is she? he said. —Amanda Collins, she said. —Amanda Collins? —Yeah. Do you remember her? —I do, yeah. But he didn’t. —How is she? —She’s grand, said the kid. —Good. —She says they all fancied you. She wasn’t the first. The last five or six years, kids had been stopping at his desk. Their first day, their big news. You knew my ma or my da. This was killing him. It was getting harder. Getting through the day, the nine class periods. It was the first week in September. She was still there. He’d have to say something. Silence wouldn’t work. —It’s hard to imagine, he said. Isn’t it? —Yeah. He looked at her. He laughed—relief. He couldn’t believe he’d been so stupid. Even as he heard himself say it. Like some seedy old man, flirting or something. She laughed, too. A lovely kid. Open. Like her mother must have been. Why he’d loved teaching, when he started, and for a long time. He didn’t drink in the day. His head was telling him he should, something quick, to swallow the headache. But he didn’t. He never had, and he never would. There was no flask or bottle in his bag. No quick dash down to the local. Too many parents, too much self-respect. He used to like it, kids stopping for a chat. What groups are you into, sir? Our cat’s after having kittens. D’you want one, sir? Things like that. He used to write down the best of them. It didn’t really happen now. Kids didn’t stop. He wrote down nothing. The kid here was going. —See you tomorrow, sir. He looked at his timetable. It was open, on his desk. —Yes, he said. Tomorrow. Bye. —Bye. She left the door open. A lovely kid. He’d smile every time she walked in, for the next six years. He went to the door. He used to stand there between classes and watch the world go by. All those tall and tiny children. More than a thousand of them on the move. He could have named most of them. He shut the door. Things changed. It wasn’t just him. He wasn’t denying anything: his heart wasn’t in it. He wished he was somewhere else. But there weren’t as many students now; the area outside was changing. The corridor wasn’t as packed as it had been when he’d started, twenty-three years before. He looked again at the timetable. He sat down. He had to bring the page closer to his eyes. He didn’t have a class now; he was free till eleven o’clock. It wasn’t just him. Something had happened. A kid stopping at the desk, a boy or a girl, had become something to be wary of, almost to dread. They’d been given talks, in the staff room, on the telltale signs—the eyes, marks, cuts. He was probably the only member of the staff left who hadn’t been told an abuse story. He’d expected it to happen. For a long time. He’d felt left out when it didn’t. He’d even been ready to make up something, when a gang of the teachers had gone for an impromptu pint after work. The urge to tell, to get back his status as one of the nice teachers. But he’d been wise; he’d kept his mouth shut. He looked at the timetable again. He had two classes left to lunchtime, and another two after. That wasn’t too bad. He looked at his watch. The headache was starting to lift. He’d be better in the next class; he’d get up and move around. He’d be Robin Williams for half an hour, in “Dead Poets Society.” One of those “Seize the day” classes. The way he used to be, all day. He’d even said it once. Seize the day, boys and girls. They’d cheered. He had an abuse story of his own. He’d been in first year, like the big-eyed kid who’d just left. A few months in the new school, he knew hardly anyone. He’d been sent to the Christian Brothers and he still hadn’t got used to them. They were strange men, sometimes funny, but savage and unpredictable. The lay teachers were as bad. If he listened, he could hear shouting or crying, someone being hit, in another part of the building. The noises were always hanging there. Once, he remembered, a boy in the room next door was thrown against the classroom wall, and he watched the blackboard on his side of the wall come off its hinges and fall to the wooden floor. They’d laughed. They’d all laughed. They’d laughed at everything. There was one of the brothers, Brother Flynn. Latin and Civics. He’d stand at the front of the room and smile and rub his big hands. But he could just as easily bring the hands down on someone’s face, one onto each ear. The front desk was a death sentence. But, really, Flynn was all right. He was the only teacher who used their first names. He didn’t go mad when he saw the names of English football teams on the covers of their books and copies. Flynn was a laugh. But Flynn liked him. He’d smile at him when he was testing their Latin vocabulary. The others noticed. —Smile back and he won’t give us any homework. —Lay off. —Go on, yeh queer. —Fuck off. Flynn patted his shoulder one day as he was going past. He wanted to cry. He wanted to get out the window, drop to the ground, run into the sea across the road. He knew the others were looking. He knew they’d be waiting to get him when the bell went and Flynn left the room. He hated Flynn and he needed him to stay. It had only lasted for a while. He got to know a few of the other lads. They went on the same bus home; he made them laugh. They knew he was sound, and soon the stuff about Flynn became a joke. He was one of them now, so he wasn’t a queer. Flynn still smiled and it didn’t matter. Then he was sick. One morning, he felt hot. His forehead, his whole face, was suddenly wet with sweat. He put his hand up. —Brother! He was going to puke. Flynn must have noticed, must have seen the color dropping off his face. He opened the door. —Quick, quick! Flynn was standing outside when he came back out of the toilet. He smiled at him. He said he’d drive him home. He told Flynn that his mother wouldn’t be there; she went to his granny’s on Mondays, two buses across the city. Flynn took him over to the house where all the brothers lived, beside the school. He’d never been in the house before. He’d never really been near it. It was a rule that never had to be remembered: don’t go near the brothers’ house. Water dripped from the roof of the porch onto the red and black tiles. —Mind you don’t slip, said Flynn. He remembered shivering, remembered feeling the cold on his skin. Flynn opened the front door. He followed him into the hall. The same red and black tiles. —Shut the door. He pushed the front door closed. The lock was colossal, a big black box screwed right into the wood. Flynn kept walking. He stood for a while, then followed him. Flynn’s black shoes on the tiles, and his own shoes—they were the only noises. The house was empty. He’d seen the housekeeper once, a woman much older than his mother, walking toward the brothers’ house with a net shopping bag full of apples. But she wasn’t there now. He could tell: something about the cold—the house had been empty for hours. Flynn pulled open a door. He disappeared behind it, then came back out, backward. He was dragging something. It was a fold-up bed, on casters. The casters squealed across the tiles. Flynn dragged the bed across the hall, to another door. He stayed where he was. Flynn was still going backward, pulling the bed, looking at him. —Come on, he said. He didn’t move. He remembered that. He remembered the slow terror, in his legs. —Come on, said Flynn. Quick now. He watched, stayed at the door, as Flynn unfolded the bed. He heard him grunt as he pushed the two sides down. It was the dining room, or something. Flynn pushed the bed against the long table. —There you are. Lie down. Flynn walked across to the window. He heard him pull the curtains. It didn’t make the room much darker. He sat down on the bed. It moved a bit, on the casters. He took off his shoes. He stood up again. He could hear Flynn’s feet. He pulled back the gray blanket. The mattress was bare, and striped. He lay down. He felt the bed move under him again, just a bit, an inch. He pulled the blanket over his chest. The room got darker. Flynn was standing in front of the light coming from the hall. —How’s the tummy now? —All right, Brother. —Are you going to be sick again, d’you think? —No, Brother. He felt the blanket being pulled away from him, but he couldn’t see Flynn’s hands. Then he saw Flynn’s face, close to his own. He was leaning over him. The blanket was gone. Then it was back; he felt it land on his legs, his waist, his chest. He felt Flynn’s hands at his neck. He could feel Flynn’s knuckles, on his chin. Flynn was holding the blanket. He was tucking it under his neck. He was looking down at him. He was smiling. “By Ned, you’re right, inspector—the body has been moved.”Buy the print » That was it, all he could remember. He half-expected more to open up—the hand grabbing his neck, holding him down—but it never did. He’d told someone about it once, a woman at a party. He’d stopped where his memory stopped, at the man tucking the blanket under the boy’s chin. He was sitting beside the woman, two kitchen chairs side by side. She looked at him, then told him that he was an apologist for the Catholic Church. She stood up as she said it. There was something, color, at the corner of his eye. He glanced over at the classroom door. The principal was looking in the window. She waved, and went. He looked down at his desk. What had she seen? His diary was open, so was one of his books. His timetable. His pen was there as well. It was fine. He was working. He felt his face. He’d shaved that morning. Not that it mattered. It had never mattered, that kind of idiocy, in this school. How you taught, not how you dressed; that was what mattered. It was one of the things he’d loved about the place. But he’d noticed. His beard had changed color. There was gray in it, even a bit of white. He looked like a wino or something if he didn’t shave every second day. The principal was younger than him. She’d come to the school four years after he had. He’d kissed her once—he cringed now. He looked at his timetable. It was darker in the room now; it was going to rain. This had been his room for more than twenty years. He knew the light and every noise. He’d do something about the drinking. He’d give it up. He would—he could. He’d watched a football match the night before, the Champions League, on RTÉ, the whole thing. But he didn’t know who’d played. He remembered nothing. Not a thing. He’d have to read the report in the paper before lunch; the paper was in his bag. Then he’d be able to talk about it, if he talked to anyone. But he’d probably stay in the room. Plan his classes. He’d stop. The drinking. He wasn’t fooling himself. He knew it was serious. He’d kissed her. That first year she’d been in the school. After a union meeting. He smiled. The absurdity. The idea of kissing her now. He looked at the window. There was no one there. He looked at the timetable. Sixth-Year English was next. A double class, Ordinary level. There were no Honors classes on his timetable. It was five years since he’d had an Honors class. Nothing had been said. These kids were fine. He’d had them last year. But there was no life in them. He’d have sworn it was true. It just wasn’t like it used to be. He wrote in his diary, “NOVEL.” He’d do the novel with them, a good start to the year. What novel was it? Had they done it already, last year? He looked at his shelf. He knew all the books, the shapes, the colors of the spines; he didn’t have to read the titles. Which one was it? He’d do something else with them. He’d think of something. He was good at that. Seize the day. The spontaneity. Not with this gang, though. Those days were over. He’d have to have something ready. He stood up. His knee cracked. Something dry in the joint. He went to the bookshelf. That was something he definitely remembered, the first time he’d heard his knee crack. It was the last time he’d been with a woman, and sober enough to remember it. —What was that?! She’d thought it was an animal or something, under the bed. Gnawing a bone. She’d made him turn on the light. A disaster, the two of them. Squinting—reality. He got off the bed and heard the crack again. —My knee, he said. —What? —The noise, he said. Listen. He moved again. She heard the crack. She started crying. A disaster. He still liked the teaching. He hadn’t changed that much. He liked the new kids who were beginning to turn up every year, the sons and daughters of the immigrants. Black kids with Dublin accents. And the East Europeans. Lovely kids. And it reminded him—now, he could feel it—of why he’d loved teaching. Empowerment. He’d loved that word. He’d believed it. Giving power to working-class kids. He could get worked up about poverty, and why he was there in the school. A word like “underclass” could still get him going, the convenience and cynicism of it. Hiding all that social injustice and inequality in a word like that. The working class became the underclass, and their problems became inevitable. His thinking hadn’t changed. When he thought. He looked at his watch. He had twenty minutes left. There was a tiny crack in the glass, and a line of mist at the crack, under the glass. He’d no idea when that had happened. There’d been one woman. She’d said it once: she loved the way he thought. He had an address in his wallet. A.A. The address and the times. Alcoholics Anonymous. It was in his jacket, in the inside pocket, ready for whenever he wanted it. Someone had given it to him. A cousin of his. At his uncle’s funeral, at the few drinks after the burial. He didn’t get it at first; he didn’t know what she was doing. He thought she was slipping him her phone number and he was running through the ethics and legality of it, phoning his own cousin, arranging to meet for a date—because she wasn’t a bad-looking woman and, really, he hardly knew her. He hadn’t met her since they were kids. But it hadn’t been her number at all. It was an address for Alcoholics Anonymous, and the meeting times. He’d thought about going, to see if she’d be there. But he hadn’t gone. He hadn’t wanted to; he hadn’t felt the need. Still, he’d held on to the address. He knew it was there. He looked at his watch. He had thirteen minutes, plenty of time. He’d give them the opening sentence of a story, and get them to continue. That always worked. He’d give them a good one. He’d come close once, with a woman. Mary. They’d been together for two years. He’d just graduated, started teaching. She was still in her final year. She’d be finished in August, and he knew what would happen then. She’d get a teaching job like his. Their salaries would meet and they’d buy a house and get married. Because her mother would deliver the Great Silence until they did. They laughed about it, the Great Silence, her name for the mother’s war against any urges or opinions that might deflect her children from their proper course: the career, the four-bedroom house, the husband or wife, the happiness that was Southside, Catholic respectability. They laughed but they’d known: the old bitch would win. They’d never admit it, the choices would be theirs—but they’d do it. They’d get the mortgage; it was mad to carry on renting. They’d get married; for tax reasons. In a church; for the laugh. They’d known—he’d known. And he’d done the right thing. He sat beside her and told her it was over. He remembered the elation as he left her in the pub and went back to their flat, to pack. Throwing everything into two bags. Going. There’d been a few phone calls, then that was it. He was alone. He could live. One night, a few years ago, he’d been watching a current-affairs program on RTÉ, after the news. He was only half-watching, and reading. He looked up at the screen. He recognized her before he knew her name. Mary. She was in some city in Africa and she was talking to people—children and women—who’d been deported from Ireland, interviewing them. In small, dark rooms, or rooms that seemed to be missing walls, that were sliding onto the street. He watched. She stood on a street that looked like the scene of recent violence and spoke to the camera. There were two men with rifles just behind her. She looked well. She looked great. The report ended. He had seven minutes. Seize the day, boys and girls. Teaching was a branch of show business. He’d always said it. Grab the kids and bring them with you. Empowerment. He stood at the board. He waited for the idea, the opening sentence that they’d read on their way into the room, the sentence that would have them grabbing their pens and folders from their bags. He hadn’t eaten in days; he wasn’t hungry. But he thought that food, anything, might help with the headache. But, there was his idea. He wrote it on the board. “He hadn’t eaten in days.” He looked at it. Six minutes. He sat down. He was pleased. He was sorted, organized, up to lunchtime. Only nine more months to go. He made himself smile. He was back on track. He opened his diary again, put it beside his timetable. He’d plan ahead. He’d memorize the students’ names. He’d smile at them when they came into the room. He’d chat to them. He’d bring them with him. Empowerment. It was still there; he could feel it, across his chest. He wouldn’t drink today; he’d go straight home. He’d get food on the way. He’d get some new clothes at the weekend. He’d go to a film or a play. That big-eyed kid, the one who’d told him that he’d known her mother. He wished that kid was his. It was ridiculous—the thought just rolled through him. Brother Flynn—the man’s smile, looking down at him. He wanted to look at someone that way, to smile down at his own child. To be able to do that. Whatever it took, whatever he gave up or didn’t give up. It was ridiculous. He stood up. He opened the door. He was ready for the bell. He looked at the board. “He hadn’t eaten in days.” They’d love that. Kidnapping, starvation; the boys would love it. But he had another idea. He went back to the board and picked up the chalk. He wrote under the first sentence, “She hadn’t eaten in days.” That was even better. They could have the choice. He could feel it in him. It was the old feeling, back. The hands would be up, asking him how to spell “anorexia.” He could already feel the buzz, the energy. He’d stay standing, walk among them. He’d smile. He’d laugh. He looked at his watch. One minute. He was fine. 
Still-Life When he appeared at the door, it was not possible, a man come out of an ash storm, all blood and slag, reeking of burned matter, with pinpoint glints of slivered glass in his face. He looked immense, in the doorway, with a gaze that had no distance in it. He carried a briefcase and stood slowly nodding. She thought he might be in shock but didn’t know what this meant in precise terms, medical terms. He walked past her toward the kitchen and she tried calling her doctor, then 911, then the nearest hospital, but all she heard was the drone of overloaded lines. She turned off the TV set, not sure why, protecting him from the news he’d just walked out of, that’s why, and then went into the kitchen. He was sitting at the table, and she poured him a glass of water and told him that Justin was with his grandmother, released early from school and also being protected from the news, at least as it concerned his father. He said, “Everybody’s giving me water.” She thought he could not have travelled all this distance or even climbed the stairs if he’d suffered serious injury, grievous blood loss. Then he said something else. His briefcase sat beside the table like something yanked out of a landfill. He said there was a shirt coming down out of the sky. She poured water on a dishcloth and wiped dust and ash from his hands, face, and head, careful not to disturb the glass fragments. There was more blood than she’d realized at first, and then she began to realize something else—that his cuts and abrasions were not severe or numerous enough to account for all this blood. It was not his blood. Most of it came from somebody else. She said to her mother, “There he was in the doorway, up from the dead. It’s so lucky Justin was here with you. Because it would have been awful for him to see his father like that. Like gray soot head to toe, I don’t know, like smoke, standing there, with blood on his face and clothes.” “We did a puzzle, an animal puzzle, horses in a field.” Her mother’s apartment was not far from Fifth Avenue, with art on the walls, painstakingly spaced, and small bronze pieces on tables and bookshelves. Today the living room was in a state of happy disarray. Justin’s toys and games were scattered across the floor, subverting the timeless quality of the room, and this was nice, Lianne thought, because it was otherwise hard not to whisper in such a setting. “I didn’t know what to do. I mean, with the phones out. Finally, we walked to the hospital. Walked, step by step, like walking a child.” “Why was he there in the first place, in your apartment?” “I don’t know.” “Why didn’t he go straight to a hospital? Down there, downtown. Why didn’t he go to a friend’s place?” Friend meant girlfriend, an unavoidable jab. She had to do it, couldn’t help herself. “I don’t know.” “You haven’t discussed this. Where is he now?” “He’s all right.” “What have you discussed?” “No major problems, physical.” “What have you discussed?” she said. Her mother, Nina, had taught at universities in California and New York before retiring two years earlier, the So-and-So Professor of Such-and-Such, as Keith once called her. She was pale and thin, her mother, following knee-replacement surgery. She was finally and resolutely old. This is what she wanted, it seemed: to be old and tired, to embrace old age, take up old age, surround herself with it. There were the canes, there were the medications, there were the afternoon naps, the dietary restrictions, the doctor’s appointments. “There’s nothing to discuss right now. He needs to stay away from things, including discussions.” “Reticent.” “You know Keith.” “I’ve always admired that about him. He gives the impression there’s something deeper to him than hiking and skiing, or playing cards. But what?” “Rock climbing. Don’t forget.” “And you went with him. I did forget.” Her mother stirred in the chair, feet propped on the matching stool, late morning, still in her robe, dying for a cigarette. “I like his reticence, or whatever it is,” she said. “But be careful.” “He’s reticent around you, or was, the few times there was actual communication.” “Be careful. He was in grave danger, I know. He had friends in there. I know that, too,” her mother said. “But if you let your sympathy and good will affect your judgment. And Justin. Having a father around the house again.” “The kid is fine. Who knows how the kid is? He’s fine, he’s back in school,” she said. “It reopened.” “But you worry. I know this. You like to nourish your fear.” “What’s next? Don’t you ask yourself? Not only next month. Years to come.” “Nothing is next. There is no next. This was next. Eight years ago, they planted a bomb in one of the towers. Nobody said what’s next. This was next. The time to be afraid is when there’s no reason to be afraid. Too late now.” Lianne stood by the window. “But when the towers fell.” “I know.” “When this happened.” “I know.” “I thought he was dead.” “So did I,” Nina said. “So many watching.” “Thinking, He’s dead, she’s dead.” “I know.” “Watching those buildings fall.” “First one, then the other. I know,” her mother said. They were silent for a time. Nina said, “Of course the child is a blessing, but otherwise, you know better than I, marrying the man was a huge mistake, and you willed it, you went looking for it. You wanted to live a certain way, never mind the consequences. You wanted a certain thing and you thought Keith.” “What did I want?” “You thought Keith would get you there.” “What did I want?” “To feel dangerously alive. This was a quality you associated with your father. But that wasn’t the case. Your father was at heart a careful man. And your son is a beautiful and sensitive child,” she said. “But otherwise.” In truth, she loved this room, Lianne did, in its most composed form, without the games and the scattered toys. Her mother had been living here for a few years only, and Lianne tended to see it as a visitor might, a space that was serenely self-possessed, and so what if it was a little intimidating. What she loved most was the two still-lifes on the north wall, by Giorgio Morandi, a painter her mother had studied and written about. They were groupings of bottles, jugs, biscuit tins, that was all, but there was something in the brushstrokes that held a mystery for her, or in the irregular edges of the vases and jars, some reconnoiter inward, human and obscure, away from the very light and color of the paintings. Natura morta. The Italian term for still-life seemed stronger than it had to be, ominous, even, but these were matters she hadn’t talked about with her mother. Let the latent meanings turn and bend in the wind, free from authoritative comment. “You liked asking questions as a child. Insistently digging. But you were curious about the wrong things.” “They were my things, not yours.” “Keith wanted a woman who’d regret what she did with him. This is his style, to get a woman to do something she’ll be sorry for. But the thing you did wasn’t just a night or a weekend. He was made for weekends. The thing you did.” “This isn’t the time.” “You actually married the man.” “And then I threw him out. I had strong objections, building up over time. What you object to is very different. He’s not a scholar, not an artist. Doesn’t paint, doesn’t write poetry. If he did, you’d overlook everything else. He’d be the raging artist. He’d be allowed to behave unspeakably. Tell me something.” “You have more to lose this time. Self-respect. Think about that.” “Tell me this. What kind of painter is allowed to behave more unspeakably, figurative or abstract?” He signed a document, then another. There were people on gurneys and there were others, a few, in wheelchairs, and he had trouble writing his name and more trouble fastening the hospital gown behind him. Lianne was there to help. Then she wasn’t anymore, and an orderly put him in a wheelchair and pushed him down a corridor and through a series of examining rooms, with urgent cases rolling by. Doctors in scrubs and paper masks checked his airway and took blood-pressure readings. They were interested in potentially fatal reactions to injury—hemorrhage, dehydration. They looked for diminished blood flow to tissues. They studied the contusions on his body and peered into his eyes and ears. Someone gave him an EKG. Through the open door, he saw I.V. racks go floating past. They tested his hand grip and took X-rays. They told him things he could not absorb about a ligament or a cartilage, a tear or a sprain. Someone took the glass out of his face. The man talked throughout, using an instrument he called a pickup to extract the small fragments of glass that were not deeply embedded. He said that most of the worst cases were in hospitals downtown or at the trauma center on a pier. He said that survivors were not appearing in the numbers expected. He was propelled by events and could not stop talking. Doctors and volunteers were standing idle, he said, because the people they were waiting for were mostly back there, in the ruins. He said he would use a clamp for the deeper fragments. “Where there are suicide bombings. Maybe you don’t want to hear this.” “I don’t know.” “In those places where it happens, the survivors, the people nearby who are injured, sometimes, months later, they develop bumps, for lack of a better term, and it turns out this is caused by small fragments, tiny fragments of the suicide bomber’s body. The bomber is blown to bits, literally bits and pieces, and fragments of flesh and bone come flying outward with such force and velocity that they get wedged, they get fixed in the body of anyone who’s in striking range. Do you believe it? A student is sitting in a café. She survives the attack. Then, months later, they find these little, like, pellets of flesh, human flesh that got driven into her skin. They call this organic shrapnel.” He tweezered another splinter of glass out of Keith’s face. “This is something I don’t think you have,” he said. Justin’s two best friends were a sister and brother who lived in a high-rise ten blocks away. Lianne had trouble remembering their names at first and called them the Siblings, and soon the name stuck. Justin said that this was their real name anyway, and she thought, What a funny kid when he wants to be. She saw Isabel on the street, the mother of the Siblings, and they stood at the corner talking. “That’s what kids do, absolutely, but I have to admit I’m beginning to wonder.” “They sort of conspire.” “Yes, and sort of talk in code, and they spend a lot of time at the window in Katie’s room, with the door closed.” “You know they’re at the window?” “Because I can hear them talking when I walk by and I know that’s where they’re standing. They’re at the window, talking in this code. Maybe Justin tells you things?” “I don’t think so.” “Because it’s getting a little strange, frankly, all the time they spend, first, sort of huddled together, and then, I don’t know, like endlessly whispering in this semi-gibberish, which is what kids do, absolutely, but still.” Lianne wasn’t sure what this was all about. It was about three kids being kids together. “Justin’s getting interested in the weather. I think they’re doing clouds in school,” she said, realizing how hollow this sounded. “They’re not whispering about clouds.” “O.K.” “My kids totally don’t want to discuss the matter. Katie enforces the thing. She basically inspires fear in her brother. I thought maybe you would know something.” “I don’t think so.” “Justin says nothing about any of this?” “No. What would he say?” “Exactly,” Isabel said. Keith was tall, with cropped hair, and she thought he looked like Army, like career military, still in shape and beginning to look seasoned, not in combat but in the pale rigors of this life, in separation perhaps, in living alone, being a father from a distance. He was in bed now and watched her, a few feet away, begin to button her shirt. They slept in the same bed because she could not tell him to use the sofa and because she liked having him here beside her. He didn’t seem to sleep. He lay on his back and talked but mostly listened, and this was all right. She didn’t need to know a man’s feelings about everything, not anymore and not this man. She liked the spaces he made. She liked dressing in front of him. She knew the time was coming when he’d press her to the wall before she finished dressing. He’d get out of bed and look at her, and she’d stop what she was doing and wait for him to come and press her to the wall. He lay on a long narrow table within the closed unit. There was a pillow under his knees and a pair of track lights overhead, and he tried to listen to the music. Inside the powerful noise of the scanner, he fixed his attention on the instruments, separating one set from the other—strings, woodwinds, brass. The noise was a violent staccato knocking, a metallic clamor that made him feel as if he were deep inside the core of a science-fiction city about to come undone. He wore a device on his wrist to produce a detailed image, and the sense of helpless confinement made him think of something the radiologist had said, a Russian whose accent he found reassuring, because Russians are serious people who place weight on every word, and maybe that’s why he chose classical music to listen to when she asked him to make a selection. He heard her now in his headset saying that the next sequence of noise would last three minutes, and when the music resumed he thought of Nancy Dinnerstein, who ran a sleep clinic in Boston. People paid her to put them to sleep. Or the other Nancy, what’s-her-name, briefly, between incidental sex acts, in Portland that time, Oregon, without a last name. The city had a last name, the woman did not. The noise was unbearable, alternating between the banging-shattering sound and an electronic pulse of varied pitch. He listened to the music and thought of what the radiologist had said, that once it’s over, in her Russian accent, you forget instantly the whole experience, so how bad can it be, she’d said, and he thought this sounded like a description of dying. But that was another matter, wasn’t it, another kind of noise, and the trapped man does not come sliding out of his tube. He listened to the music. He tried hard to hear the flutes and to distinguish them from the clarinets, if there were clarinets, but he was unable to do this, and the only countervailing force was Nancy Dinnerstein drunk in Boston, and it gave him a dumb and helpless hard-on, thinking of her in his drafty hotel room with a limited view of the river. He heard the voice in his headset saying that the next sequence of noise would last seven minutes. Now Lianne stood at the foot of the bed and watched him lying there, late one night, after she’d finished working, and asked him finally and quietly, “Why did you come here?” “That’s the question, isn’t it?” “For Justin, yes?” This was the answer she wanted, because it made the most sense. “So he could see you were alive,” she said. But it was also only half the answer, and she realized she needed to hear something beyond this, a broader motive for his action or intuition or whatever it was. He thought for a long moment. “It’s hard to reconstruct. I don’t know how my mind was working. A guy came along in a van, a plumber, I think, and he drove me here. His radio had been stolen, and he knew from the sirens that something was going on but he didn’t know what. At some point, he had a clear view downtown, but all he could see was one tower. He thought one tower was blocking his view of the other tower, or the smoke was. He saw the smoke. He drove east a ways and looked again, and there was still only one tower. One tower made no sense. Then he turned uptown, because that’s where he was going, and finally he saw me and picked me up. By this time, the second tower was gone. Eight radios in three years, he said. All stolen. An electrician, I think. He had a water bottle he kept pushing in my face.” “Your apartment, you knew you couldn’t go there.” “I knew the building was too close to the towers, and maybe I knew I couldn’t go there and maybe I wasn’t even thinking about that. Either way, that’s not why I came here. It was more than that.” She felt better now. “He wanted to take me to the hospital, the guy in the van, but I told him to bring me here.” He looked at her. “I gave him this address,” he said for emphasis, and she felt better still. It was a simple matter, outpatient surgery, a ligament or a cartilage, with Lianne in the reception area waiting to take him back to the apartment. On the table he thought of his buddy Rumsey, briefly, just before or after he lost sensation. The doctor, the anesthetist, injected him with a heavy sedative or other agent, a substance containing a memory suppressant, or maybe there were two shots, but there was Rumsey in his chair by the window, which meant the memory was not suppressed or the substance hadn’t taken effect yet, a dream, a waking image, whatever it was, Rumsey in the smoke, things coming down. It’s interesting, isn’t it? To sleep with your husband, a thirty-eight-year-old woman and a thirty-nine-year-old man, and never a breathy sound of sex. He’s your ex-husband who was never technically ex, the man you married in another lifetime. She dressed and undressed; he watched and did not. It was strange but interesting. A tension did not build. This was extremely strange. She wanted him here, nearby, but felt no edge of self-contradiction or self-denial. Just waiting, that was all, an extended pause in recognition of a thousand sour days and nights, not so easily set aside. The matter needed time. It could not happen the way things did in normal course. And it’s interesting, isn’t it, the way you move about the bedroom, routinely near-naked, and the respect you show for the past, the deference to its fervors of the wrong kind, its passions of cut and burn. She wanted contact, and so did he. This time the woman showed up in the bakery, the mother of the Siblings. She walked in just after Lianne did and joined her after taking a number from the dispenser on the counter. “I’m just wondering about the binoculars. He’s not, you know, the most outgoing child.” She smiled at Lianne, warmly and falsely, in a fragrance of glazed cakes, a mother-to-mother look, like we both know how these kids have enormous gleaming worlds they don’t share with their parents. “Because he always has them lately. I just wondered, you know, what he might have told you one way or the other.” Lianne didn’t know what she was talking about. She looked into the broad and florid face of the man behind the counter. The answer wasn’t there. “He shares them with my kids, so that’s not the problem, because their father promised them a pair, but we haven’t gotten around—you know, binoculars, not the highest priority, and my Katie’s being supersecret and her brother’s her brother, loyal to a fault.” “You mean what are they looking at, behind closed doors?” “I thought maybe Justin.” “Can’t be much, can it? Maybe hawks. You know about the redtails.” “No, it’s definitely something else. I’m sure of this, absolutely, because the binoculars are part of the whole hush-hush syndrome these kids are engulfed in.” “I don’t think so,” Lianne said. “This is their secret. And I thought maybe Justin. Because my kids totally blank out when I bring up the subject.” She hadn’t known that Justin was taking the binoculars on his visits to the Siblings. They weren’t his binoculars, exactly, although she guessed it was all right for him to use them without permission. But maybe not, she thought, waiting for the man to call her number. “Aren’t they doing birds in school?” “Last time it was clouds.” “Turns out I was wrong about the clouds. But they’re definitely studying birds and birdcalls and habitats,” she told the woman. “They go trekking through Central Park.” She realized how much she hated to stand around with a number in her fist. She hated this regimen of assigned numbers, strictly enforced, in a confined space, with nothing at the end of the process but a small white bow-tied box of pastry. There was an old-fashioned pencil sharpener clamped to the edge of the table in Justin’s room. She stood at the door and watched him insert each pencil into the slot and then crank the handle. He had red-and-blue combination pencils, Cedar Pointe pencils, Dixon Trimlines, vintage Eberhard Fabers. He had pencils from hotels in Zurich and Hong Kong. There were pencils fashioned from tree bark, rough and knotted. There were pencils from the design store of the Museum of Modern Art. He had Mirado Black Warriors. He had pencils from a SoHo shop that were inscribed along the shaft with cryptic sayings from Tibet. It was awful, in a way, all these fragments of status washing up in some little kid’s room. But what she loved to watch was the way he blew the microscopic shavings off the pencil point after he finished sharpening. If he were to do it all day, she’d watch all day, pencil after pencil. He’d crank and blow, crank and blow, a ritual more thorough and righteous than the formal signing of a document of state by eleven men with medals. When he saw her watching, he said, “What?” “I talked to Katie’s mother today. Katie and what’s-his-name. She told me about the binoculars.” He stood and watched her, pencil in hand. “Katie and what’s-his-name.” “Robert,” he said. “Her little brother Robert. And his older sister Katie. Is this something I should know about? And are you supposed to take the binoculars out of the house without permission?” He stood and watched. He had pale hair, his father’s, and a certain sombreness of body, a restraint, his own, that gave him an uncanny discipline in games, in physical play. “Did your father give you permission?” He stood and watched. “What’s so interesting about the view from that room? You can tell me that, can’t you?” She leaned against the door, prepared to remain for three, four, five days, in the context of parental body language, or until he answered. He moved one hand away from his body slightly, the hand without the pencil, palm up, and executed the faintest change in facial expression, causing an arched indentation between the chin and lower lip, like an old man’s mute version of the young boy’s opening remark, which was “What?” Keith sat next to the table, left forearm placed along the near edge, hand dangling from the adjoining edge, curled into a gentle fist. He raised the hand without lifting his forearm and kept it in the air for five seconds. He did this ten times. It was their term, “gentle fist,” the rehab center’s term, used in the instruction sheet. He found these sessions restorative, four times a day, the wrist extensions, the ulnar deviations. These were the true countermeasures to the damage he’d suffered in the tower, in the descending chaos. It was not the MRI and not the surgery that had brought him closer to well-being. It was this modest home program, the counting of seconds, the counting of repetitions, the times of day he reserved for the exercises, the ice he applied following each set of exercises. There were the dead and the maimed. His injury was slight, but it wasn’t the torn cartilage that was the subject of this effort. It was the chaos, the levitation of ceilings and floors, the voices choking in smoke. He sat in deep concentration, working on the hand shapes, the bend of the wrist toward the floor, the bend of the wrist toward the ceiling, the forearm flat on the table, the thumb-up configuration in certain setups, the use of the uninvolved hand to apply pressure to the involved hand. He washed his splint in warm soapy water. He did not adjust his splint without consulting the therapist. He read the instruction sheet. He curled the hand into a gentle fist. Her mother had said it clearly, years earlier. “There’s a certain man, an archetype. He’s a model of dependability for his male friends, all the things a friend should be, an ally and a confidant, lends money, gives advice, loyal, and so on, but sheer hell on women. Living, breathing hell. The closer a woman gets, the clearer it becomes to him that she is not one of his male friends. And the more awful it becomes for her. This is Keith. This is the man you’re going to marry.” This is the man she marries. He was a hovering presence now. There drifted through the rooms a sense of someone who has earned respectful attention. He was not quite returned to his body yet. Even the program of exercises he did for his postsurgical wrist seemed a little detached, four times a day, an odd set of extensions and flexions that resembled prayer in some remote northern province, among a repressed people, with periodic applications of ice. He spent time with Justin, taking him to school and picking him up, advising on homework. He wore the splint for a while, then stopped. He took the kid to the park to play catch. The kid could toss a baseball all day and be purely and inexhaustibly happy, unmarked by sin, anyone’s, down the ages. Throw and catch. She watched them in a field not far from the museum, into the sinking sun. When Keith did a kind of ball trick, using the right hand, the undamaged one, to flip the ball onto the back of the hand and then jerk the arm forward, propelling the ball backward along the forearm before knocking it into the air with his elbow and then catching it backhanded, she saw a man she’d never known before. He began to think into the day, into the minute. It was being here in the apartment, alone for extended periods, that made this happen, being away from routine stimulus, all the streaming forms of office discourse. Things seemed still, clearer to the eye, oddly, in ways he didn’t understand. He began to see what he was doing. He noticed things, all the small lost strokes of a day or a minute, how he licked his thumb and used it to lift a bread crumb off the plate and put it idly in his mouth. Only it wasn’t so idle anymore. Nothing seemed familiar, being here, in a family again, and he felt strange to himself, or always had, but it was different now, because he was watching. There were the walks to school with Justin and the walks back home alone, or somewhere else, just walking, and then he picked up the kid at school and it was back home again. There was a contained elation in these times, a feeling that was half hidden, something he knew but just barely, a whisper of self-disclosure. The kid was trying to speak in monosyllables only, for long stretches. This was something his class was doing, a serious game designed to teach the children something about the structure of words and the discipline required to frame clear thoughts. Lianne said, half seriously, that it sounded totalitarian. “It helps me go slow when I think,” Justin said to his father, measuring each word, noting the syllable count. Keith as well was going slow, easing inward. He used to want to fly out of self-awareness, day and night, a body in raw motion. Now he finds himself drifting into spells of reflection, thinking not in units, hard and linked, but only absorbing what comes, drawing things out of time and memory and into some dim space that bears his collected experience. Or he stands and looks. He stands at the window and sees what’s happening in the street. Something is always happening, even on the quietest days and deep into night, if you stand awhile and look. There were the walks to and from school, the meals he cooked, something he’d rarely done in the year and a half of their separation because it had made him feel like the last man alive, breaking eggs for dinner. “We go home now,” Justin said. She was back from an early-morning run and stood sweating by the kitchen window, drinking water from a one-litre bottle and watching Keith eat breakfast. “You’re one of those madwomen running in the streets. Run around the reservoir.” “You think we look crazier than men.” “Only in the streets.” “I like the streets. This time of morning, there’s something about the city, down by the river, streets half empty, cars blasting by on the Drive.” “Breathe deeply.” “I like running alongside the cars on the Drive.” “Take deep breaths,” he said. “Let the fumes swirl into your lungs.” “I like the fumes. I like the breeze from the river.” “Run naked,” he said. “You do it, I’ll do it.” “I’ll do it if the kid does it,” he said. Justin was in his room, a Saturday, putting the last touches, last pokes of color, onto a portrait he’d been doing, in crayon, of his grandmother. Either that or drawing a picture of a bird, for school, which reminded her of something. “He takes the binoculars over to the Siblings’. Any idea why?” “They’re searching the skies.” “For what?” “Planes. One of them, I think it was the girl.” “Katie.” “Katie claims she saw the plane that hit tower one. She says she was home from school, sick, standing at the window when the plane flew by.” The building where the Siblings lived was known to some as the Godzilla Apartments, or simply as the Godzilla. It was forty stories or so in an area of town houses and other structures of modest height and it created its own weather systems, with strong currents of air that sometimes sheared down the face of the building and knocked old people to the pavement. “Home sick. Do I believe that?” “I think they’re on the twenty-seventh floor,” he said. “Looking west across the park. This much is true.” “Did the plane fly down over the park?” “Maybe the park, maybe the river,” she said. “And maybe she was home sick and maybe she made it up.” “Either way.” “Either way, you’re saying, they’re looking for more planes.” “Waiting for it to happen again.” “That scares me,” she said. “This time with a pair of binoculars to help them make the sighting.” “That scares the hell out of me. God, there’s something so awful about that. Damn kids with their goddam twisted powers of imagination.” She walked over to the table and picked half a strawberry out of his cereal bowl. Then she sat across from him, thinking and chewing. Finally, she said, “The only thing I got out of Justin—the towers did not collapse.” “I told him they did.” “So did I,” she said. “They were hit but did not collapse. That’s what he says.” “He didn’t see it on TV. I didn’t want him to see it. But I told him they came down. And he seemed to absorb it. But then, I don’t know.” “He knows they came down, whatever he says about it.” “He has to know, don’t you think? And he knows you were there.” “We talked about it,” Keith said. “But only once.” “What did he say?” “Not much. And neither did I.” “They’re searching the skies.” “That’s right,” he said. “This is what we get for putting a protective distance between children and news events.” “Except we didn’t put a distance, not really,” he said. She looked at him. “Why are you still here?” She said this in a tone of gentlest curiosity. “Are you planning to stay? Because I think this is something we need to talk about,” she said. “I’ve forgotten how to talk to you. This is the longest talk we’ve had.” “You did it better than anybody. Talk to me. Maybe that was the problem.” “I guess I’ve unlearned it. Because I sit here thinking we have so much to say.” “We don’t have so much to say. We used to say everything, all the time. We examined everything, all the questions, all the issues.” “All right.” “It practically killed us.” “All right. But is it possible? Here’s my question,” she said. “Is it possible you and I are done with conflict? You know what I mean. The everyday friction. The every-word, every-breath schedule we were on before we split. Is it possible that’s over? We don’t need that anymore. We can live without it. Am I right?” “We’re ready to sink into our little lives,” he said. They sat in a taxi going downtown and began to clutch each other, kissing and groping. She said, in urgent murmurs, It’s a movie, it’s a movie. At traffic lights, people crossing the street stopped to watch, two or three, seeming briefly to float above the windows, and sometimes only one. The others just crossed, those who didn’t give a damn. In the Indian restaurant the man at the podium said, “We do not seat incomplete tables.” In the beginning, she washed his clothes in a separate load. She had no idea why she did this. It was like he was dead. She listened to what he said and let him know she was listening, mind and body, because listening is what would save them this time, keep them from falling into distortion and rancor. What was ordinary was not more ordinary than usual, or less. This was the man who would not submit to her need for probing intimacy, over-intimacy, the urge to ask, examine, delve, draw things out, trade secrets, tell everything. It was a need that had the body in it—hands, feet, genitals, scummy odors, clotted dirt—even if it was all talk or sleepy murmur. She wanted to absorb everything, childlike, the dust of stray sensations, whatever she could breathe in from other people’s pores. She used to think she was other people. Other people have truer lives. It’s a movie, she kept saying, his hand in her pants, saying it, a moan in the shape of words, and at traffic lights people watched, a few, and the driver watched, lights or not, eyes gliding across the rearview mirror. But then she might be wrong about what was ordinary. Maybe nothing was. Maybe there was a deep fold in the grain of things, the way things pass through the mind, the way time swings in the mind, which is the only place it meaningfully exists. She read newspaper profiles of the dead, every one that was printed. Not to read them, every one, would have been an offense, a violation of responsibility and trust. But she also read them because she had to, out of some need that she did not try to interpret. After the first time they made love, he was in the bathroom, at first light, and she got up to dress for her morning run but then pressed herself naked to the full-length mirror, face turned, hands raised to roughly head level. She pressed her body to the glass, eyes shut, and stayed for a long moment, nearly collapsed against the cool surface, abandoning herself to it. Then she put on her shorts and top and was lacing her shoes when he came out of the bathroom, clean-shaven, and saw the fogged marks of her face, hands, breasts, and thighs stamped on the mirror. Every time she saw a videotape of the planes she moved a finger toward the power button on the remote. Then she kept on watching. The second plane coming out of that ice-blue sky, this was the footage that entered the body, that seemed to run beneath her skin, the fleeting sprint that carried lives and histories, theirs and hers, everyone’s, into some other distance, out beyond the towers. The skies she retained in memory were dramas of cloud and sea storm, or the electric sheen before summer thunder in the city, always belonging to the energies of sheer weather, of what was out there, air masses, water vapor, westerlies. This was different, a clear sky that carried human terror in those streaking aircraft, first one, then the other, the force of men’s intent. Every helpless desperation set against the sky, voices crying to God, and how awful to imagine this, God’s name on the tongues of killers and victims both, first one plane and then the other, the one that was nearly cartoon human, with flashing eyes and teeth, the second plane, the south tower. He watched with her one time only. She knew she’d never felt so close to someone, watching the planes cross the sky. Standing by the wall, he reached toward the chair and took her hand. She bit her lip and watched. They would all be dead, passengers and crew, and thousands in the towers dead, and she felt it in her body, a deep pause, and thought, There he is, unbelievably, in one of those towers, and now his hand was on hers, in pale light, as though to console her for his dying. He said, “It still looks like an accident, the first one. Even from this distance, way outside the thing, how many days later, I’m standing here thinking it’s an accident.” “Because it has to be.” “It has to be,” he said. “The way the camera sort of shows surprise.” “But only the first one.” “Only the first,” she said. “The second plane, by the time the second plane appears,” he said, “we’re all a little older and wiser.” 
Playdate Matilda’s mother apologizes for calling so late, but she wonders whether Caroline might be free for a playdate? Like, tomorrow? “Matilda’s had a cancellation,” she says. Liz searches the kitchen drawer for Caroline’s Week-at-a-Glance. It’s ten already and she’s had her wine; down the hall the baby nurse, Lorna, is asleep with the twins and Caroline; Ted’s out of town. What the hell is Matilda’s mother’s name, anyway? Faith, Frankie, Fern— “We could do an hour,” Liz says. “We have piano at four-thirty.” She can picture her clearly: a single woman who hovers in the school hallways wearing the look that Liz has come to associate with certain mothers—a mixture of doe-eyed expectancy and absolute terror, as if at any minute they might be asked to recite the Pledge of Allegiance or the current policy on plagiarism; the school being one of those places where mothers are kept on their toes and organized into various committees for advance and retreat, their children’s education understood as a mined battlefield that must be properly assaulted. Didn’t she just see her last week at the enlightenment session? A talk given by a Dr. Roberta Friedman, Professor of Something, entitled “Raising a Calm Child in the Age of Anxiety; or, How to Let Go and Lighten Up!” But now, for the life of her, Liz can’t remember whether she and Matilda’s mother exchanged two words, just the way Matilda’s mother balanced on the edge of her folding chair taking notes, the intentional gray streak (intellectual?) of her cropped hair, the fury of her pen. “Oh, God, that’s great,” Matilda’s mother is saying. “I just need to keep Matilda from losing her gourd.” “I understand,” Liz says. “Do you?” says Matilda’s mother. “You do?” Her name is Fran, apparently. Fran Spalding. Liz has looked her up in the confidential, you-lose-it-you’re-screwed Parent & Faculty directory. She and Matilda live across the Park from the school, on West Eighty-sixth Street. Does anyone not live uptown? Liz wants to know, but she asks the question only of herself, so there’s no answer, just the relative quiet of her studio—a big loft in what was once considered Chinatown. Liz spends most mornings here spinning clay into pots and teacups and dessert plates. At this hour there’s little interruption, just the occasional rumble of a garbage truck and the low chatter of the radio and her own mind: Fran Spalding, daughter Matilda, West Eighty-sixth. They’ll go today after school. They’ll cross the Park in a taxi, mothers and daughters, and aim for the apartment building, three-forty-something, where Fran Spalding and Matilda live, and go up to the fifteenth floor, 15D, she knows—the address listed in the second section of the directory, the front pages clotted with emergency numbers and please-put-in-a-place-of-prominence evacuation routes. It’s a playdate, a date for play; Caroline duly apprised of the plan this morning as she and Liz waited for the school bus on Lafayette. Around them, Cooper Union students bunched up like blackflies, bluebottles in window corners, at every “Don’t Walk.” “Who?” Caroline says. “Matilda. She’s in your class. You know. She wears striped shirts.” “Does she have a cat?” Caroline asks. “I have no idea.” “Does she want to play My Little Ponies?” Liz looks down at her daughter. “Who doesn’t?” she says. Caroline shoves her hands in her pockets and swings one leg. She leans against a filthy meter tattooed with stickers advertising things: 800 numbers for important advice; someone staying positive with H.I.V. “I’ll go,” Caroline says, as if going were a question. “Great!” Liz says. “Here comes the bus!” The school bus is the big yellow kind, exactly the same as the one Liz once rode to elementary school, in that faraway place, that faraway land known as rural Ohio. Here, in lower Manhattan, the bus seems too large, wrong, a dinosaur lurching through the veering bicyclists and throngs of pedestrians, the construction cones and smoking manholes; a relic of a thing, a dirtied yellow shell, an empty chrysalis whose butterfly has flown the coop. Inside, a handful of children are spread front to back, their expressionless faces gazing out the smeared windows, their ears plugged. Her own school bus, her Ohio school bus, had burst with noise and the boys who wouldn’t move over and then, later, would. The bus stops; its doors open. Liz releases Caroline’s hand and waits as she ascends the high steps and disappears down the aisle. In an instant, she reappears in the window seat closest to Liz, her backpack beside her like a twin. Liz waves and smiles; that she has refused to buy headphones and the machines into which they fit remains a constant source of outrage to her daughter, though on this morning Caroline seems happy enough, smiling back, crossing her eyes and sticking out her tongue as the doors close and the school bus lurches on. “First, the golden rule: Never compare your own childhood experiences with those of your children,” Dr. Friedman had said, her glasses pushed to the tip of her nose. “This is a fruitless exercise, unhealthy and counterproductive. Best to remain alert; to look on the bright side; to, whenever possible, accentuate joy.” Liz pounds the clay on the wheel and straightens her miner’s cap, a figment of her imagination but one that works relatively well in focussing her thoughts away from the business of children and onto the clay. The twins are presumably in the park with Lorna, sleeping in their double stroller or being pushed, side by side, in the swings meant for babies. Lorna is a pro. She will have bundled them up and thought to bring nourishment—formula or the breast milk that Liz pumps every evening; her breasts have nearly expired, she thinks, they’ve hit their expiration date. And Caroline is safely in school, repeating the colors of vegetables in Spanish or sitting at a small round table having what’s known as Snack: individual packages of Cheez-Its (they’ve all complained!), or free-of-hydrogenated-oils-and-corn-syrup-though-possibly-manufactured-in-a-factory-traced-with-nuts animal crackers. The point is, Liz has five hours before she needs to take the subway uptown: five whole hours. It is nothing and everything. It could stretch out before her like an eternity if she has the will, or it could evaporate in a single moment. Concentrate, she thinks. In the bright light of the cap, Liz sees the spinning clay take form and her own hands, aged, fingernails bitten to the quick. She has written Fran Spalding’s cell-phone number across her knuckles, in case she forgets, or there’s a problem, or the world blows its cork: a possibility, a probability, apparently, but for now she’s going to concentrate. She’s not going to think about that. “Ladies and Gentlemen, this is an important message from the New York City Police Department,” says the subway voice over the loudspeaker five hours later. Liz stands half in, half out of the subway car, a new habit; she always waits until the last passengers have pushed past before she fully commits to sitting down. “Keep your belongings in your sight at all times. Protect yourself. If you see a suspicious package or activity on the platform or train, do not keep it to yourself. Tell a police officer or an M.T.A. employee. “Remain alert, and have a safe day,” the voice adds as the doors shut. The taxi barrels across Central Park, through its odd scattering of tunnels; blocks of stone rise on either side of the road as if the taxi were plummetting through earth. Above loom the barren trees, leafless and gray, or the blotched white of sycamores; once, aeons ago it seems now, orange flags were unfurled along this same route. Then, thousands of people, all of them vaguely smiling, had wandered the paths like pilgrims in a dream. No one appears to be smiling now. They hurry along, wrapped in their coats, the day leaden, darkening; an Ethan Frome day, Liz used to say in college, to be clever, though she wasn’t particularly, unable to decipher the strange manners and customs of the East. She hasn’t thought of that in years. Fran pays the driver, while Liz, in back, unbuckles Caroline and Matilda, leaning over them to push open the door. “On the curb,” she’s saying. “Watch your step,” she’s saying. “Grab your gloves.” Fran gestures for them to follow her into the building entrance, where two men in uniform hold open the large glass doors, bowing slightly as Fran passes. “Partner!” one of them says, high-fiving Matilda. “Who’s your buddy?” “Michael,” Fran says, arrested at the “WELCOME” threshold. “This is Matilda’s friend Carolyn.” “Caroline,” Liz says; she can’t help it, raw nerve. Anything else she would let slide, she tells herself. Truly. “Of course,” Fran is saying. “Caroline.” “Buddy bear,” Michael says to Matilda. “Look at you.” They look. How can they not? Everywhere there are mirrors, reflecting them, reflecting Michael and the other guy, reflecting the bounty and the grandeur of it all—potted green plants with white lights, garlands, a cone of poinsettia and even, on a pedestal between the elevator banks, an elaborately carved stone urn containing—what? Liz wonders. Dead tenants? “This is lovely,” Liz says. “It’s home,” Fran says. She rings for the elevator, the girls crowding next to her. In an instant there’s the ping, and then the doors slide open. Another man in uniform smiles as they all step in; there is a small chair in the corner for sitting, though he clearly prefers to stand. “Hey, Matty,” he says. “How’s the Go-Go?” Go-Go, Fran explains, is the cat, their cat, who recently contracted a hot spot. A hot spot, she tells Liz, is an itch that can’t be scratched. “Wow,” Liz says. They rise in mechanical wonder and then stop, abruptly, on eleven, where the elevator doors slide open to no one. “False alarm,” the man in the uniform says, releasing the doors and driving them onward, upward. The girls stand stock still; they all stand stock still. “Are you allergic?” Matilda says to Caroline. “The cat,” Fran says to Caroline. “Are you allergic to cats?” Matilda says. She wears pink plastic barrettes and a striped shirt underneath a pink jumper. “Caroline,” Liz says. “Did you hear—” “No,” Caroline says. She hunches beneath her huge backpack, carried solely for fashion, or just in case. In it now, Liz happens to know, is a palm-size notepad on which Caroline draws the details of her day and a purple-lipsticked Bratz doll that she treasures, received on her last birthday from Ted’s mother, who, Ted said, meant well. “Lots of people are,” Matilda says. The elevator stops. “North Pole,” says the man in the uniform. “Thank you,” says Fran. “Thank you,” says Liz. “Thank you,” says Matilda. “Thank you,” says Caroline, walking behind Liz and tripping her, accidentally on purpose. “Caroline,” Fran’s voice soars in from ahead. “How do you feel about strudel?” But neither Caroline nor Matilda is listening, or hungry, for that matter; released from the grip of the elevator, the girls run down the poorly lit hallway playing some sort of imaginary game, knocking into doors and taking corners at high speed. “Matilda Beth,” Fran yells after them. “That’s one.” She pauses. “Don’t let me get to two.” Matilda stops and grabs Caroline’s hand, pulling her toward what must be D—an unassuming door with a child’s drawing taped over its peephole. It is always the same, Liz thinks, in these pictures: the mismatched ears, the round eyes, the name scrawled across one corner. The girls are six years old and braided, the days of the week stitched on their underpants. They wear seamless socks and rubber-soled shoes, and both are missing two teeth, though not the same ones; each has been read “Charlotte’s Web” and “The Boxcar Children,” the first a story of a pig on a farm and its friendship with a spider, the second a story of children, orphans, living happily alone in the woods, making do with rusted spoons pulled from the dump and the occasional cracked cup of milk. “Caroline,” Liz says. “Is this a gold-star day?” She has spied Caroline twisting her finger up her nose and refers to a deal between the two that sometimes results in better behavior but more often does not. Once in the apartment, Matilda leads Caroline to her room, where they settle beneath a green canopy of gauze to play My Little Ponies. Liz returns to the living room with Fran, whose gray streak, she learns, is natural and who works at home during school hours, copy editing and proofreading documents for a legal firm. From time to time, the girls interrupt them, flying into the living room in leotards and ballerina skirts and, once, in nothing at all, at which point Fran calls Matilda aside and speaks to her in a voice that Liz has heard only from single mothers or from mothers with numerous children—women who simply do not have the time or the patience for the monkey business that everyone else puts up with, they have told her; once, even, she heard the voice from a mother who said she just placed herself in the hands of Jesus. So maybe it’s the voice of Jesus, Liz thinks now, admiring it; her own, she knows, entirely lacks authority, as if she were questioning each verdict she pronounced. “More tea?” Fran asks. “Thank you,” Liz says, following her back into the kitchen, where they wait with great anticipation for the water to boil, watching the kettle’s curved spout, its shiny, smudged lid, as if they had never seen anything quite so fascinating in their lives. “We are living in the Age of Anxiety,” Dr. Friedman said, “and here we sit at the epicenter, the Ground Zero, if you will.” She looked up and over those glasses at all of them, the throng of mothers, the few stay-at-home dads or those fathers whose schedules allowed them to be flexible—men in T-shirts, shorts, and sturdy boots, their hairy legs oddly comforting, as if, at a moment’s notice, they could sweep the whole group onto their shoulders and hoist them out the window. Many of the women in the circle appeared to Liz to be close to tears, though some were more difficult to read, writing with expensive pens, their briefcases balanced against their slim ankles, their hair blown smooth. Dr. Friedman surveyed the room, clearly attempting to make eye contact with the closest suspect, though unfortunately that suspect was Janey Filch, wall-eyed and so shy she looked ready to faint. “Everywhere we go are reminders of where we are. I don’t think they need to be chronicled here. The school has briefed you on contingencies, and your emergency-contact cards have been filed in triplicate. Each child has an individual first-aid kit and a protective mask. “Still and still, you might say, the question remains: What can you do right now, on this day, at this hour, in this moment?” Here Dr. Friedman looked up again and smiled, the smile so studied as to be disarming, as if Liz weren’t really looking at a woman smiling but at a portrait of a woman smiling. “Take a deep breath,” she said, exhaling loudly. “Smell the roses,” she said, inhaling loudly. “Relax.” The women slouched a bit in their folding chairs, attempting to follow Dr. Friedman’s advice. Liz imagined that if Dr. Friedman were next to suggest that they all stand and do a few jumping jacks, most would leap to the job. “Now,” Dr. Friedman said, wiggling her shoulders. “I’m going to give you all some homework. This is an exercise that I’ve found works very well with my patients. It’s simple, really. How many of you keep a journal?” A few hands shot up, Marsha Neuberger waving as if desperate to be picked. “That’s fine, that’s fine,” Dr. Friedman said. “I only wanted to get an idea. Anyway, what I’m going to suggest is that you all try keeping what I call an anxiety journal; just like if any of you have ever tried to diet and kept a food journal—” Anxiety journal like food journal, Liz would have written in her notes, if she had remembered paper and pen. Bemused laughter, she would have added. “—where you wrote down your caloric intake. Your anxiety journal will be the place where you write down everything that makes you feel nervous, or anxious, throughout the day: it can be anything you like. Don’t worry about how it sounds. No one is going to read it but you.” This Dr. Friedman said emphatically, Liz would have noted, whipping off her glasses and looking up, avoiding Janey Filch but generally trying to reassure each and every one of them. “Promise,” she added. Liz looks from her steaming tea to Fran. Fran is describing her terrific luck in finding the apartment, falling into it, desperate, after fleeing San Francisco with Matilda and a few pieces of luggage. Now, as a single mother, she kept a tight rein on things, she said. “Have you noticed?” Liz is unsure whether she should have noticed or not, so she blows on her tea and shakes her head. “There was a burglary,” Fran says. “In San Francisco. After that we felt like we had to get out. I mean, I did. I left Matilda’s father. Richard. And moved back East.” “Oh.” “Strudel?” Fran says, sliding a plate across the counter. “Oh, gosh, no thanks.” “I’ve sliced some apples for the girls.” “Great,” Liz says, knowing that Caroline won’t touch them—the edges, minutes after being sliced, too brown. “And you?” Fran says. “I’m sorry?” “What about you?” Fran says. “Oh,” Liz says. “We moved from Boston. We were in art school, Ted and I, and then we moved here—Ted works in television, children’s television—and then we had Caroline and now the twins, but I’m getting back to it. Art. I’m a potter, actually. I work with clay.” “In vitro?” asks Fran. “I’m sorry?” “The twins,” Fran says. “In vitro?” Liz nods. “Your eggs?” Liz blows on her tea. “Nope. We had to shell out twenty thousand dollars; we did it through the alumni association.” “Smart eggs,” Fran says. “I didn’t really care. Ted felt strongly about that, you know. He didn’t want to adopt.” “Men rarely do.” They sit in the living room, on opposite sides of the sectional. “I think our girls really get along,” Fran says. “Yes,” Liz says. “After the burglary, you know, Matilda had trouble making friends. I mean, she played by herself most of the time. Made up stories. I’d take her to a birthday party or something, and there all the other children would be running around and screaming and playing tag or smacking the piñata, that kind of thing, and Matilda would be sitting by herself involved in some fairy-tale game. It was, well, embarrassing, frankly.” Liz can’t help thinking that taupe is entirely the wrong color for this room, high as they are above the city. Excellent light, the listing would say. Light and air; airy light; sun-drenched, sun-gorged, sun-soaked, rush to your sun-kissed oasis! There are windows everywhere, and those radiators that line the walls. Fran should clear them off and paint the place—something dramatic, terra cotta, she’d suggest, or saffron yellow. “This was in San Francisco, where everything is, well, healthy, do you know what I mean? There’s always someone talking about loving-kindness. I couldn’t stand it after a while. I just left. I mean, we did; after the burglary. We just got on a plane and flew away. Anyway, that’s it. I’m here for good. I mean, I grew up here, in the city, but it’s different now, of course. It’s a lot different.” There is a bit of a pause; comfortable enough, Liz thinks. The truth is, she’s enjoying herself. It’s a playdate, she finds herself thinking; I’m on a date for play. “Would you like a drink?” Fran says. “A drink?” “I’d have one if you would. Carpe diem, or whatever. Anyway, screw tea, we’re grownups, right?” “O.K.,” Liz says. “Sure. Great. Yes.” “Excellent!” Fran says. From behind Matilda’s door comes a shriek of giggles. “Besides, they’re having fun!” Fran says. “So are we!” Liz says. Fran disappears to the kitchen and Liz stands to stretch a bit, to look out the windows. The apartment faces west, she believes, though she gets turned around at these heights. She still isn’t used to apartment views or high floors, and the ease with which you can see other lives: how even now, across from here, a boy sits reading at a dining-room table while an old woman—a nurse? a grandmother? a nanny?—moves around him, straightening up, stepping in and then out of Liz’s sight. A diorama, they are; what you might see at the American Museum of Natural History: early twenty-first century, N.Y.C., U.S.A. They’re dead, actually—stuffed mammals, the old woman on some sort of a moving track. And what of Fran in the kitchen? Liz in the living room? Urban/suburban women circa 2007 participating in/on playdate, an urban/suburban ritual intended to alleviate boredom/loneliness among children/women while encouraging/controlling social engagement— “What?” Liz yells. “Chilled?” Fran yells. “Wonderful,” Liz yells. She turns away from the windows; there are other things to do. She pokes around the taupe room. On a wide bookshelf are the usual histories and paperbacks and framed photographs: an infant Matilda; an earnest-looking boy in mortarboard and gown, Richard?; a teen-age Fran leaning against a giant redwood, her hair not yet streaked with gray but solely black, her posture sophisticated, worldly—she’s in college, possibly, or a Manhattan high school. I live on a narrow island, her posture says. I live at the center of the world. On the secretary are bills and Post-it notepads and loose receipts and whatnot. Liz has a strong feeling, a hot spot, an itch to be scratched, and, sure enough, there it is among them: Fran’s anxiety journal. It’s as she expected, a steno notebook generally used for reportage. Liz resists for only a moment. “Voilà!” Fran says. Liz turns to see her carrying a tray, the TV-dinner kind; it makes Liz anxious. “What have you got?” Fran says. She’s pouring and doesn’t notice. “Oh, nothing,” says Liz. “Your anxiety journal.” Fran stops. “You were reading it?” “Oh, God, no. Of course not. I just saw it here and picked it up. I mean, I was thinking, Good for you, and remembering that I’ve been meaning to buy one, or get one. I’d write, ‘TV-dinner tray.’ ” “What?” “ ‘TV-dinner tray.’ Like the one you’re holding. It makes me nervous and I can’t tell you why.” Fran looks down. “It belonged to Richard. He liked to eat in front of the news.” “Exactly.” “Maybe it’s the news you associate it with.” “Maybe.” “See? She had a point,” Fran says. “Cheers!” They toast and sip the wine, which is delicious chilled, Liz says—she never thinks to do that. “You should,” Fran says. She takes the anxiety journal and tucks it beneath one of the sectional cushions. “To playdates!” she says, toasting again. It’s near the dinner hour and the girls are getting hungry; they haven’t heard a peep from their mothers. Pinkie Pie and Sun Sparkles have been to the castle about a zillion times; they’ve flown in the blue balloon, late for the costume ball, and then arrived, the “My Little Pony” theme song playing as Pinkie Pie and Sun Sparkles twirl on the special pink plastic revolving disk within the castle walls. Caroline lies on her back, pedalling her legs in the air, her finger working her nose. Matilda is reprimanding her imaginary sister, Beadie. “Get down from there,” Matilda says. Beadie perches dangerously close to the window ledge, threatening to jump, and even though she has wings on her back and little ones at her ankles Matilda pleads with her to stop. “Goodbye, my friend,” Beadie says. “Goodbye!” Beadie takes a tremendous leap and falls, tumbling, toward the street. Matilda screams an imaginary scream, though Beadie, she knows, won’t splat; she’ll fly with her little wings right back to Matilda’s room. Still, Matilda feels scared. “Help! Help!” Matilda yells. “Thief! Help! Thief!” The door swings open. “Do not even start with that,” Fran says. “It makes me insane.” Behind Fran, Liz looks in. “Caroline,” she says. “Gold-star day, remember?” Caroline pulls her finger out of her nose. “Are you girls happy?” Fran says. “We’re hungry,” they say. “We’re staying for dinner, how’s that!” Liz says. The girls hop up and down holding hands; they wear only their underwear. Chicken nuggets are served. Somewhere in Matilda’s room, Fran is saying as she prepares the tray, lives a round table and two chairs, Little Bear size, ordered from one of those catalogues which arrive daily in the mail; this one featured three child models, she’s saying, two girls and one boy, sipping tea at the table, sunlight streaming through windows that looked out on what appeared to be Russian countryside. The girls were dressed beautifully; the boy served in a monogrammed apron. Or maybe it came from the other one, Fran says, knocking on the door, the one where the child models introduced themselves and listed their goals. “I’m Zelda,” Fran says in a wavery falsetto. “I’m going to be a rock star.” Fran opens the door; inside, the girls huddle within the gauzy tent, apparently hiding. “I can’t remember which,” Fran continues, “but the point is, it’s really cute, and it cost a fortune, and it must be here somewhere. I mean, you can’t just lose a table and chairs.” Fran wades through stuffed animals and clothes and artwork and books, to a stack of pillows and blankets in the center of Matilda’s room, excavating until she finds the ensemble buried beneath. They were making a fort. “Jesus,” she says, flushed. “Can you believe all this crap?” “Yes,” Liz says. Fran sets down the tray and calls the girls over. “O.K., ladies,” she says. “Which princess?” “Jasmine,” Matilda says. “Oh, for God’s sake,” Fran says, rotating the plates. “Ketchup?” Liz says; she holds the bottle at the ready. The girls nod, and she lurches toward them, ready to squirt. “I can’t say that anything really happened with Richard,” Fran says. “It was just, you know, the feeling.” She lies on the floor in the now dim light of the apartment, balancing her wineglass on her chest, her feet propped on the sectional. “The elephant-in-the-room feeling.” “The wha?” Liz says. She can’t remember the last time she drank so much wine in the afternoon; usually, she waits until Caroline’s asleep, the twins with Lorna in the nursery, Ted back at the office (the demanding life of a children’s television executive!) before pouring her first glass. Then she might have another, and another, enough to erase the day, or the parts of it she doesn’t want to remember: Caroline standing with her backpack on Lafayette, the neon-scrawled windows of the gay bar next to the bus stop, the public-service poster of an unattended bag, like an old-fashioned doctor’s bag, shoved beneath some unsuspecting person’s seat. “The elephant-in-the-room feeling,” Fran says. “You know, the thing that’s just, God, there. It’s big and heavy and real, somehow, though unnamed. It’s just there, is all, this blob of feeling; the feeling from the Black Lagoon.” Fran rolls over on one elbow. “Did you ever ruin your life for a feeling?” she says. “I don’t know,” Liz says. “I hope not.” She has closed her eyes to watch the tiny red pricks of light behind her eyelids. It’s a trick she likes to do, a habit; she likes to count them, pretend they’re sparks. She’s combustible, perhaps—she’s burning up. “I miss Richard,” Fran is saying. “I miss him every day. There’s nobody to tell anything to anymore. Nobody.” Liz opens her eyes and the sparks die out; she is back where she was, things reassembling around her—bookshelf, secretary, radiator, carpet, floor lamps. “I mean, there never was anybody to talk to, really,” Fran is saying. “But there sort of was. I thought there was. For a while I used to. Do you know what I mean?” “Yes,” Liz says, closing one eye and then the other; it changes her perspective. “I think so,” she says. She is a highly trained artist, she could tell you. She has training up the wazoo. She got a fellowship, even, and there were many, many applicants. She majored in art history, in case you’re interested. “Do the others look like you?” Fran asks. “What?” Liz says. “The twins. Do they look like you? Or, you know, like the smarter, younger egg woman?” Liz laughs. She doesn’t mean to, but she laughs and tips over the wineglass that she forgot she’d balanced beside her. There’s just a little left, just a drizzle to darken an already wet spot; she’s a well-trained klutz is what she is, a social miscreant fluent in art history, trained in art history. “Sorry, sorry,” she says. “I did it again.” “Forget it,” Fran says. Liz blots the wet spot with her shirtsleeve. “Not at all is the thing,” she says. “The twins don’t look like either of us. They’re blond and blue-eyed, for one. I mean, adorable. Absolutely adorably wonderful, but people think they’re adopted.” “That’s so funny,” Fran says. “I forgot to laugh,” Liz says. “But you’re lucky,” Fran says. “God, I know,” Liz says. “I am in the ninety-ninth percentile of luck.” “You tested out,” Fran says. “I am among the gifted and talented.” From Matilda’s room there’s the sound of a thud. “You guys happy?” Fran yells. “We’re O.K.!” Matilda yells back. “Caroline?” Liz yells. “Yes?” “Are you still there?” “I’m here,” Caroline says. “I thought she might have disappeared,” Liz says. “Sometimes I think she’ll just disappear.” “They’re fine,” Fran says. “More?” “Just a skosh,” Liz says. “A skosh?” Fran says. “Japanese for ‘a little,’ ” Liz says. “Sukoshi.” “Oh,” Fran says. “Do you speak it?” “My dad was in the service. Stationed there. I used to think it was Yiddish. He’d say ‘Just a skosh’ whenever you offered him wine. I miss him, too,” Liz says. “Like Richard.” “Your dad?” “Yes.” “Here.” Fran pours; they’ve finished one bottle and opened another. What they are celebrating they have no idea. “Lemme at it,” Liz says. She crawls along the sectional on all fours. She hasn’t been able to locate the floor-lamp switch, but it doesn’t matter; she’s a cat who can see in the dark. “It was here, I saw it. You took it away from me.” “Oh, God!” Fran shrieks. “The whole thing is so stupid. Please.” “Lemme, lemme, lemme,” Liz says. “You’re going to hate me,” Fran says. “Are you kidding?” Liz says. “You’re my new best friend.” “You have to promise,” Fran says. “I promise, I promise,” Liz says. “Not to laugh. Really. No. I mean it. Don’t laugh. You’re going to laugh. I know it. I can just—” “Bluebird’s honor,” Liz says. “Bluebird, Brownie, Girl Scout, Kappa Kappa Gamma. God, can you believe me?” “Wow,” Fran says. “Are you serious?” “I’m always serious,” Liz says. “I’m never not serious. I’m a never-not-serious Ohioan, Ohioette gal, aren’t I? I remain alert.” “Do you think if we lived there or, like, Montana or something, things would be, I don’t know, different?” Fran says. “Ta-da!” Liz says. “Shit,” Fran says. “I found it!” Liz says. “Shit,” Fran says. “You said I could.” “Go ahead, just please. You promised.” “I’ll be dead serious,” Liz says. She swings her bare feet around. “I am dead serious,” she says. “I am a deadly serious, dead-serious, never-not-serious person. I repeat, I remain alert.” What is she saying? She has no idea, really, though it feels good to speak, the words tumbling out of her mouth and knocking around in the darkening room, high above the city where she has spent the afternoon with a new friend, a sophisticated friend, a woman who grew up here, a woman with a streak of natural gray, a divorced single mother with a legal, razor-sharp mind who can look down on the lights and know where she is, know all the cross streets and the avenues, know the best places to buy things, the best things to buy, a woman who used to bicycle to Greenwich Village, who met Bob Dylan, even, in one of those places where people met Bob Dylan, back when the Village was the Village, and Bob Dylan lived there, or, at least, sang there, but then that would have been Fran’s mother, maybe, or an older brother who didn’t mind Fran tagging along, who took her even, rode with her balanced on his handlebars. And now look! This! The promise of the journal in her hands! Fran made notes! She caught all the things that Liz missed—the meeting room overheated and crowded, the acoustics so bad it was impossible to concentrate. And afterward—this is now Liz talking, Liz continuing to talk, Liz babbling—Dr. Friedman had been so mobbed, so impossible to get to, that she had actually waited in the school lobby and followed her out, down Madison and then some, then over, to Lexington, the subway entrance there, Dr. Friedman walking with such robotic— “What?” Fran says. “What?” “Robotic,” Liz says. “Oh,” Fran says. “Right, robotic. Go on.” —purpose, that she quite literally couldn’t catch up. She just couldn’t catch up, she says again, before Dr. Friedman flew down the stairs to the subway. “A flying robot,” Fran says. Liz turns to the journal. “It must be done,” she says. “The consensus has been reached.” “O.K.,” says Fran, who has moved to sit cross-legged on the floor in front of her. “It won’t hurt,” Liz says. “Please.” “Well, just a little.” “Thank you.” “I’ll make it quick,” Liz says. “All right,” Fran says. “These are difficult times, terrible times. Someone’s got to police the world.” Liz opens the journal to read, but the truth is, it’s difficult to see what’s written in the near-dark, and her eyes have started to go. She brings the page to her face, and squints: (1) Thieves (2) Crowds (3) School (4) Shadows (5) Playdates (6) Lunchrooms (7) Helicopters (8) Anniversaries (9) Night “What?” Fran’s saying. “What? Oh, God. What did I write?” She moves closer to Liz, scoots in, so that Liz imagines Fran might next crawl into her lap as Caroline does, settle there between her legs to practice reading in the way she’s been instructed at school: Read It Once to See; Read It Twice to Comprehend; Read It Again to Fully Absorb Its Meaning. Go-Go appears from nowhere. He scratches and scratches, biting at the hot spot on his leg, gnawing. “Stop!” Fran says, clapping her hands. “Stop!” Liz closes the journal and stands up a bit unsteadily. “Jesus, it’s dark,” she says. “I can’t believe it got so late.” She hands the journal to Fran. “I promised Lorna I’d be back earlier.” “Right,” Fran says, taking the journal. “God, I’m sorry.” “Oh, no. This was fun. I mean, this was really fun, and the girls—” “They seem to hit it off,” Fran says. “Caroline!” Liz yells in the direction of Matilda’s room, the shut door. “Shit. We had piano, I totally forgot.” “Oh, my God. I’m really sorry,” Fran says. “I started—” “Don’t apologize. Caroline hates piano. Anyway, it wasn’t your—are these my shoes?” “Here,” Fran says. “They’re here, with Caroline’s backpack.” “Caroline!” Liz yells. “It’s impossible to get them—” “Caroline, now!” The door opens slowly and the girls, or what looks like shadows of the girls, drift out, fall out, into the hallway. “Are Thursdays better?” Fran is saying. “I’m sorry?” “Thursdays. We could do Thurs—” Liz feels a kind of draining away, as if the ebb of the twilight has returned to the night all that is loose, unmoored. She has always fought the feeling of this time of day, when her father would remain in the garden and her mother did what mothers did then in the house. Liz would ride her bike up and down the driveway, waiting for her father to call her, to tell her to come quick, to come see the misshapen gourd, or the earthworm, or the potato bug before it got too dark, and she would, before it went black as pitch. She would hurry, she would pedal like the wind to get to what her father held: this thing unknown, random, discovered in the dirt and now there for her in her father’s hand. A miracle. It’s what placed her squarely in the world, what kept her from being sucked out. “Yes,” Liz says. “Sure, whatever.” She ties up Caroline’s sneakers, yanks the laces tight. “I’m sorry about Richard,” she says, straightening. “Oh, it’s fine,” says Fran. “Really. Matilda and I are a team, aren’t we, Matty?” “Rah rah,” Liz says. “Thursdays,” Fran says. She has found Caroline’s jacket beneath the coat rack and now holds it out for her. “We’re going to do Thursdays!” she says to Matilda. “Let me check at home,” Liz says. “I never know which end is up.” “Oh,” Fran says. “Thank Matilda,” Liz says to Caroline. “Thank you,” Caroline says. “Thank Fran,” Liz says. “Thank you,” Caroline says. Liz clutches Caroline’s hand on the subway platform. There is work being done somewhere, and the trains are running intermittently, though a taxi or a bus is out of the question—the traffic insane. The twins have had their baths and are sleeping, Liz has heard from Lorna. Everything is fine, she has been told. “Ladies and Gentlemen,” booms the intercom. “This is an important message from the New York City Police Department. Keep your belongings in your sight at all times. Protect yourself. If you see a suspicious—” “Did you have a good time?” Liz says, talking over the recorded voice, squatting so that she can be at eye level with the girl. “Uh-huh,” Caroline says. “Is Matilda nice?” Liz says. “Uh-huh,” Caroline says. “Does she like to play My Little Ponies?” Liz says. Caroline pulls on the loose straps of her backpack, a filched Pinkie Pie, its tail braided, its eyes pocked by a pen point, now zipped into one of the many compartments. “I don’t know,” Caroline says. She turns away from her mother and stares out over the empty tracks. “No,” she adds, quietly, though who could hear anything for the screech of the approaching train. In the rush Liz teeters, grabbing Caroline into a hug, her hands gripping Caroline’s thin shoulders for balance. “But it was a gold-star day, baby,” she says as the crowd swells over them. “Wasn’t it?” 
LUCKY ALAN In the months after I’d auditioned for him, I would run into the legendary theatre director Sigismund Blondy at the movies, near-empty Thursday matinées of indifferent first-run films—“North Country,” “Wedding Crashers”—in the decaying venues of the Upper East Side, where we both lived: the Crown, the Clearview, the Gemini; big rooms chopped into asymmetric halves, or quartered through the balcony. Blondy saw a movie every afternoon, he said, and could provide scrupulous evaluations of any title you’d ever think to mention—largely dismissals, though I do recall his solemn approval of “A Sound of Thunder,” a time-travel film with a Ben Kingsley performance he’d liked. I’d see Blondy when the lights came up—alone, red scarf and pale elegant coat unfurled on the seat beside him, long legs crossed—unashamed, already hailing me if he spotted me first. Blondy dressed in dun and pastel colors, wore corduroys or a dancer’s Indian pants; in winter he had holes in his knitted gloves, in summer a cheesy panama hat. He towered, moved softly and suddenly, usually vanished at any risk of being introduced. Soon I’d scan for Blondy whenever I entered a theatre, alone or not. Often enough I’d find him. We never sat together. If this multiplex-haunting practice didn’t square with Blondy’s reputation as the venerated maestro of a certain form of miniaturist spectacle (“Krapp’s Last Tape” in the elevator of a prewar office building, which moved up and down throughout the performance, with Blondy himself as Krapp, for cramped audiences of five or six at a time), it didn’t matter, since that reputation hardly thrived. I’d auditioned—talked with him, really—for a role in a repertory production of several of Kenneth Koch’s “One Thousand Avant-Garde Plays.” Dianne Wiest sat with us in the back room of the SoHo Italian restaurant in which the Koch cycle was to be staged, and where this evaluative tête-à-tête took place. She followed our conversation soberly, her unexplained presence typical of Blondy’s Zelig-like infiltration of the city’s culture. Within weeks I’d learned that Blondy had had a falling out with the restaurant’s proprietor, stranding the enterprise. I’d waited, expecting some revival of the project, for months. Eventually I assumed I’d been replaced and kept half an eye on the Times for a notice of the thing. But the Koch never surfaced; nor did anything else. Maybe Blondy’s run was over. Or on hiatus, in some deep ruminative lag. And then, in the months that followed, he gradually became my moviegoing doppelgänger. The ritual was made official the first time he invited me out for a glass of red after the movie, as though that were the real point of the afternoon. We’d sit at some Madison or Second Avenue wine bar in the dimming hours, invariably alongside those waiting for their dinner dates, those who made even me feel old. Whether Blondy ever felt old I couldn’t guess. His grandiosity, his U-turn anecdotes, his contempt for the obvious statement didn’t invite such guesses, only the tribute of gratified awe. I gave it. Blondy was like a skater up his own river, a frozen ribbon the rest of us might have glimpsed through trees, from within a rink where we circled to tinny music. I told him I had quit acting the first time we left a movie theatre together, before even finishing a glass. Blondy’s intimate smile seemed to say, not unsympathetically, that it was all for the best. We rarely talked about the film we’d just seen; instead we discussed great works—the Rothko retrospective, Fassbinder’s “Berlin Alexanderplatz,” Durrell’s “Alexandria Quartet,” whatever formed his present obsession. After two or three glasses on an empty belly had made me dizzy—Blondy never showed any effects—we’d part on the sidewalk. By the time it occurred to me that I hadn’t seen Sigismund Blondy in a while, I couldn’t have said how long a while was. Four months? Eight? It seemed to me he’d been in holey-gloves-and-red-scarf mode the last time we’d slipped from a theatre to a bar, but that didn’t narrow it down much. We were headed back to scarf weather now. Maybe Blondy had summered somewhere—Provincetown?—and decided not to return, enlisting some local company to mount spectacles in a dockworker’s bar or a bowling alley’s lounge. Sig Blondy, big fish in a small pond? I knew no more consummate New Yorker, so I started to worry. Neither of the two people whom Blondy and I knew in common had any reason to know that the director and I spent afternoons together, but when I called—the first didn’t have Blondy’s phone number, and the second had one that he thought was the “old number,” then found another he recommended I try—neither was interested enough to ask why I wanted to track him down. Perhaps these days Blondy was less well remembered than I’d assumed. Blondy, likely in his early sixties, always seemed to me terrifyingly vital, but those in their early sixties might suddenly fail. Had I entered, without noticing, some quiet bargain struck among the proud bachelors of Manhattan, to get one another’s backs? In my rapidly evolving fantasy, Blondy became pitiable, myself a rescuer. I rang the number. Blondy’s machine was set to pick up on the first ring. It figured he’d be an old-school screener. “Grahame,” he said, interrupting my message. His tone was munificent, as if congratulating me for having the name I did. I’d been reaching for words to distill my concern but now scrambled, defensively, for a joke. His relish at having lifted the receiver in the thick of my fumbling seemed akin to his pleasure at our old, ambiguous encounters in theatre lobbies, before we’d begun drinking. What I said now was “Don’t you go to the flicks anymore, or are you ashamed to take the senior discount?” “Oh, I go. Every afternoon. Just not in the old neigh-bore-hood.” “I miss you,” I blurted. He explained that he’d moved downtown, to Minetta Street. Hiding in plain sight, he called it. He’d spoken in the past of his devotion to the block of Seventy-eighth Street, where for decades he’d held down a rent-stabilized bargain, and of his persistent enchantment with the tribes of dog-walkers and nannies he’d mingled with there, once calling the Upper East Side “the last of the true Manhattan.” But I didn’t get a chance to ask him why he’d abandoned it. “I’ve got some questions I want to ask you,” he said. “When can you get here?” “Questions?” “Better than questions, a questionnaire. You’ll see.” “You want me to come to Minetta Street? Today?” “Look, Film Forum is doing Mizoguchi—‘Ugetsu.’ Ever seen it?” There was something of the director in his bullying and beguiling, but it was in my nature, I suppose, to be directed. “Ugetsu” astonished me. Discussing it after the two-fifteen matinée, while we looked on Sixth Avenue for a restaurant with a suitable bar, Blondy said that for years he’d felt that two scenes toward the end of the film were reversed from their ideal order—the only flaw, he’d always thought, in a perfect work of art—but that today, sitting at Film Forum, waiting for it, he couldn’t spot the flaw he’d earlier been so certain of. “What’s pathetic is that I’d presumed to go around all these years sure I knew better than Mizoguchi! It’s as though I had to defend myself against the film’s perfection.” I was awed, as I maybe was supposed to be, at the scrupulousness with which he dwelled on what he cared for. Perhaps I was also awed at the change in our friendship. We’d gone to a movie that Blondy cared about, instead of trash, and for once we’d sat together in the theatre, so I could smell Blondy’s faint but unmistakable doggish odor. It felt as though I’d stepped into Blondy’s script, was now simultaneously the featured performer and the sole audience for the most infinitesimal of his productions. When we’d settled down with two glasses of Syrah, Blondy drew from his pocket several worn photocopies. “O.K., these are the questions I’ve been wanting to ask you,” he said, as if he’d been expecting my call in the first place. “O.K.” “They’re from Max Frisch’s ‘Sketchbook 1966-1971.’ Ready?” “Sure.” “We won’t do the whole questionnaire. I’ll pick and choose.” “Sure, fine.” “Are you sure you are really interested in the preservation of the human race once you and all the people you know are no longer alive?” “Sorry?” “That’s the first question.” He resumed his insinuating theatrical murmur. “Are you sure you are really interested . . . ” I did my best with the question, told Blondy I thought anyone ought to feel a value in the continuity of the species, but he interrupted. “No, you,” he said. “How do you feel?” “Yes, I’d be sad if there were no people.” He leaped to the next question. “Whom would you rather never have met?” My only brush with Harold Pinter had been fiercely disappointing. I began to describe it. Blondy rushed me again. “Would you like to have perfect memory? Just answer the questions that interest you, Grahame. If you had the power to put into effect things you consider right, would you do so against the wishes of the majority?” “Look, Sigismund, what is this?” “Are you convinced by your own self-criticism?” “Too much, I’m afraid.” “Are you conscious of being in the wrong in relation to some other person—who need not necessarily be aware of it? If so, does this make you hate yourself—or the other person?” His voice was so entrancing that I suspected we were both entranced. He might as well have asked to read me poetry, for all that I was persuaded he wanted my replies. I said, “What about you, Sig? You answer this one.” He nodded, raised his glass. “And hate myself for it.” Again, I wondered if I heard the sound of a trap snapping shut. Had I delivered my designated line? Were we perhaps getting to the point? “Who?” I asked. “Alan Zwelish,” Blondy said. Sigismund Blondy had known Alan Zwelish for several years, in the way of a Manhattan neighbor, repeatedly sighting a compelling face in passing instants as one or the other swerved from the street into the entrances of their buildings, which stood across and askew from each other, or in the same Chase A.T.M. lobby on Seventy-ninth, or in the late-night Korean shop collecting, if you were Zwelish, a pack of cigarettes, or, if you were Blondy, a bottle of ginger beer or a packet of wasabi peanuts. Or, most stirringly, far from the block they shared, at adjacent bookstalls in Union Square on a hot Saturday noon, where they honored the strangeness of detecting each other so far afield with a curt nod. That nod could have been the whole of it. But Blondy didn’t play by the Manhattan-neighbor rules. He was provocative, voluble, grabby. He collected life histories, he’d once bragged to me, of the block’s fleet of dog-walkers, maypoled in leashes on their way to the Park, confused to be approached when nearly anyone else would switch pavements to get a berth from roiling terriers. Cooed at strollered babies until lonely Tibetan nannies, invisible persons of Manhattan, practically swooned in his long arms. Blondy regaled waiters, too; I’d seen him do it. Anyway, Alan Zwelish, short, muscled, his eyes sparkling with suspicion, sports coats pixied with dandruff, became a fascination. Bearded when Blondy first noticed him, Zwelish shaved within a year or so, revealing features younger and grimmer than Blondy had guessed, a knuckly chin and somewhat sensuous lips. Tenured-professorial in the pretentious facial hair, without it Zwelish was revealed to be no more than thirty-five. His Bogart smoking mannerisms seemed the result of mirror study and, like the renounced beard, an attempt to gain control of the lower portion of his face. Blondy watched this proud, drum-tight personality fidget past him on the street and began projecting; he couldn’t help it: an unfinished degree in journalism, concerned married sisters in New Jersey or Connecticut (but probably New Jersey), weights but no cardio, aggrieved blind dates, Cigar Aficionado and Stereophile, takeout menus, acres of porn. What was positive was this: Zwelish owned his apartment, the basement of a co-oped town house, and made a living consulting on business software—these facts Blondy got out of Alan Zwelish, semi-voluntarily, the first time he introduced himself, on Seventy-eighth Street. The next time they passed, Zwelish attempted to look the other way, as though offering up this information had been a paying of dues, and he could now revert to nodding acquaintance. No dice, not with Blondy, who launched one of his in-medias-res gambits (the equivalent, maybe, of a Max Frisch questionnaire): the parrots were missing, had Zwelish heard? What? Zwelish hadn’t ever seen the flock of green parrots, rumored to be pets escaped over the years, and which congregated in certain trees on York Avenue at Seventy-seventh, around which you could hear a tropical cloud of parrot conversation? These birds were a totem of the neighborhood; it was essential Zwelish see them. But Blondy hadn’t managed to spot them for more than a week. Was Zwelish doing anything urgent at the moment, or would he join Blondy for a walk to search them out? Incredibly—or not, given Blondy’s charismatic sway—Zwelish excused himself for a moment to put his briefcase inside and take a leak, then rejoined Blondy, and they strolled together to York. It was a perfect afternoon, a temperate wind rebounding off the river. They found the parrots easily. (Whether they’d ever been missing at all Zwelish was left to wonder.) Now the hard little man had been cracked open. As Sigismund Blondy saw him, Zwelish walked in a fiery aura of loneliness, but Blondy had got inside the penumbra. Zwelish would grab Blondy on the street and describe family plights: the barely tolerated Passover at his—yes!—sister’s in New Jersey, the difficulty of properly liquidating his father’s gnarled-up assets, which were under his elderly mom’s watch. And brag, essentially. Was Blondy drinking the crap water that came out of the Seventy-eighth Street taps? He should install such-and-such purification system in his sink. Cash sitting in a money-market account was as good as thrown away; Zwelish was in certain arcane tech stocks and had also acquired a Motherwell print. Blondy was invited to an East Hampton guesthouse weekend? That place was hell, trust Zwelish. Zwelish’s high-school buddy had a place in the Berkshires, a better value. Blondy rented? Hopeless! Everything was a competition in which Blondy wouldn’t compete, saying, “Look at who you’re talking to, Alan. I’m like the parrots, just roosting here, decorating the area. I’d rather leave nothing behind but delicious memories.” Bohemian standards Zwelish wouldn’t ratify. “You’re a fool,” he’d say. “Yes,” Blondy agreed, “I’m a fool, exactly.” Zwelish narrowed his eyes. “But you don’t know how dangerous it is to be a fool. Dangerous to yourself and others.” Blondy thought, What others? Possibly Zwelish meant the women. Sigismund Blondy, like any tall dissolute specimen, had women around him, in roles likely unclarified even to themselves: exes, friends, liaisons. Zwelish witnessed a certain number of the comings and goings of this elegant flock, which culminated in an introduction at a First Avenue Greek diner during morning hours suggestive of an overnight visit, before collaring Blondy alone one day to say, “O.K., Sig, how do you do it?” “Do what?” “Five different women I’ve seen you with in the past two months.” “Friends, Alan, those are my friends.” Zwelish crushed his cigarette under his running shoe, the way he wanted to stub out Blondy’s line of defense. “Don’t bullshit me. I see them lean into you. That’s not friends.” “When you reach my age, women lean into you for a variety of reasons.” “I could use some friends like that.” Blondy felt he’d been offered a significant confidence. Insouciant as he was, he hadn’t ever felt that he could quite ask a man as unattractive as Zwelish how he made do. Before any tenderness broke out between them, however, Zwelish thrust a knife in. “I’ve seen you hitting on those illiterate babysitters, too. The whole block talks about it, you know.” This prospect tipped Blondy back on his heels for an instant: that he, who prided himself on his panoramic insight into Seventy-eighth Street, could be himself under the microscope. And, using that instant, Zwelish made his escape. A bruising friendship, if it was one. And, like Blondy and me at the movies, many weeks could pass between encounters. Did Blondy only fantasize that Zwelish peered out of his basement window slats deciding whether or not, on a given afternoon, he wanted to see Blondy? In any case, when they did meet, Zwelish generally seemed to have some willful challenge ready, as if he prepared with flash cards. “Not awake yet?” if he saw Blondy with coffee in the afternoon. “Never awake at all anymore,” Blondy would say, always willing to play the decrepit jester, the has-been, hoping he could un-push Zwelish’s buttons. “Want a job, Blondy? You should write an opera about Donald Trump. He’s what passes for a hero these days!” Blondy didn’t compose operas, but never mind. Still, after Zwelish’s initial remark they’d often fall into the earlier style of more relaxed banter. And Zwelish sometimes let his guard down and complained, obscurely, about “modern urban women.” He’d only gloss the topic, and Blondy didn’t press at the sore point. Zwelish seemed to know how vulnerable Zwelish wanted to get. “Can’t you get one of those babysitters to do your laundry for you?” Zwelish said one day when he saw Blondy humping a Santa Clausian bag to the Chinese dry cleaner. Zwelish seemed particularly keen and chipper, and rolled up his sleeve to show off a nicotine patch. More bragging. He explained that he’d already stepped down two patch levels, after fifteen years of pack-a-day smoking. “I never thought of this before,” said Blondy, “but if you wanted to smoke but were having trouble getting started, the patch could really do the trick, couldn’t it?” “What are you talking about?” “If you wanted to be a smoker,” Blondy said, explicating the joke. “You could step up instead of down.” Zwelish brought out his silly side; he couldn’t help it. “Once you get to the top level, you tear off that patch and—voilà!—you’d want a cigarette urgently.” “Fuck you,” Zwelish said, and walked away. His self-improvements were apparently no laughing matter. Yet Sigismund Blondy, being who he was, found Zwelish all the more precious for his touchiness. He constituted a test that Blondy, who’d sledded on pure charm through so many controversies, couldn’t pass. He adored Zwelish for causing him, at this late date, to want to do better, try harder, give more. It was months later that the real opportunity came: Alan Zwelish’s definitive self-renovation, one that Blondy instantly vowed to treat only reverently, beatifically. Zwelish returned from a mysterious trip in possession of an Asian wife. Blondy heard it first from another neighbor (shades of “the whole block knows”), who included a nosy speculation as to whether the union had been made by online advertisement or some other mechanical arrangement, before he saw her for himself. From Vietnam, it was revealed when they met on the street, and tiny enough to make Zwelish look tall. Doris, Zwelish introduced her as, though he later confided that her name was something else, Do Lun or Du Lan. Bright dark eyes and features so precise they seemed tooled. At this first meeting Blondy clasped Zwelish’s hand, took his elbow, gave his warmest congratulations. Almost bent to kiss Doris, but thought better. She was too self-contained and skittish, a cipher. Zwelish pulled her close to him, seeming for once immune to hurt, a being formed only of pride and delight. Blondy was a part of the family if only because at the moment anyone, even a passing stranger, would have been. Blondy watched them disappear into the basement apartment, Zwelish gallantly rushing past Doris to unlock the gate, and felt a disproportionate happiness, one he suspected he’d have to make an effort to conceal. Zwelish never attacked Blondy now, his sarcasm apparently totally evaporated, and if Blondy ever experimented with a teasing joke (calling Doris “Mrs. Z”) it seemed to go right over Zwelish’s head. Or under it, as if the man were floating. They’d greet each other heartily, with or without Doris in Zwelish’s tow. It was as though Zwelish had advertised the director to Doris in advance as a sterling friend, a local pillar, and then so invested in the notion that he forgot his old wariness. Doris, when she was along, watched carefully. Her English wasn’t hopeless, once you pierced the gauze of the almost total deference she showed her husband, never speaking without checking his eyes for cues. Who knew what else she was capable of, what life she’d led before, what life she’d expected coming here? Zwelish, who worked increasingly from home, who made fewer consulting trips out of town, kept her attached at the hip. Soon enough Doris’s pregnancy was noticeable on her scrawny frame. Her posture was too good to hide it past the third month. Zwelish accepted these congratulations, too, but distantly. This was a cold winter, everyone battened into woollen layers and readily excused from dawdling in the open, and Zwelish and his expectant young wife were more and more like figures in a snow globe, viewable but uncontactable from the human realm. They didn’t seem happy or unhappy, just curled into each other, whispering on the street, a totally opaque domestic unit. Blondy couldn’t get a rise or anything else out of Zwelish, and I knew Blondy well enough to feel how this irked him. It explained the reckless choice he made. Likely, given his history with Zwelish already, Blondy knew it was reckless, though he did it wholly in gentleness and out of sheer enthusiasm. One day when Doris was five or sixth months along and spring had broken out on the street, Blondy ran into her alone as she returned, waddling slightly, from the Korean market. He insisted on carrying her plastic bags to the door of the basement apartment. This was bad enough, really, since it wasn’t beyond Zwelish’s established range to feel this as a rebuke for not having accompanied Doris to the store. But worse, much worse, at the door Blondy reached under Doris’s sweater and T-shirt, not without asking first, and cupped his palm underneath the globe that burgeoned there. He did it elegantly—nothing but elegance, with a woman especially, was possible for Blondy. Doris wasn’t jarred. Blondy didn’t linger. Just felt it and murmured something about “a miracle,” and something else about “lucky Alan.” Asked “Boy or girl?” and Doris told him: “Boy.” Zwelish, who’d heard their voices and come to the window, now rushed out, unlocked the gate, and pulled Doris inside. He seemed to have some imprecation caught in his throat and which produced a kind of angry hiccup as he glared up at Blondy. Then, with his wife, he was gone. Conveniently, Zwelish was alone when he next met Blondy on the street. He lowered his shoulder as they came near each other, and, when Blondy said his name, he squared and delivered a sour look. “What do you want from me?” he asked Blondy. “Nothing you wouldn’t want to give” was Blondy’s reply. “Why’d you call me ‘lucky’?” Zwelish asked. “What?” “ ‘Lucky Alan.’ What’s that supposed to mean?” “Nothing,” Blondy said, exhausted at last. “Then why don’t you just keep your distance.” Zwelish exited on the line. Now came the deep valley in their relations, though Blondy somehow never doubted it would eventually be crossed. Weeks or a month could go by without their passing on the street, and words were never spoken. Blondy was busy then, in the effort that included our own first meeting, the Koch plays. The boy was born, and the little triad was sighted on Seventy-eighth Street, always self-reliant and self-contained, always in a hurry. And, finally, Blondy uncovered the existence of the “whole block”; it consisted of an older woman (meaning, I guessed, Blondy’s age) living in Blondy’s own building, whom Blondy mainly identified with a boring dispute over recycling, and who, it turned out, was eagerly running him down to absolutely anyone, from the market Koreans to new tenants; to the dog-walkers she’d interrogate after their talks with Blondy, as if deprogramming them; to, presumably, Zwelish. One of the dog-walkers, the most garrulous and multifariously connected (he walked the Jack Russell and the corgis and the aging dachshund), spilled it all to Blondy, at last. And also said that Zwelish himself had once halted on the sidewalk to take part in the latest Blondy-trashing session. That Zwelish had said he’d never trusted Blondy, was “always just playing along,” whatever that meant. As though Blondy’s affection were so pernicious it had to be negotiated with. In the earlier months of this stalemate, Blondy had spotted Zwelish with or without his new family four or five times, then Doris alone with the boy in a stroller two or three others. Blondy hadn’t noticed to what degree he’d pridefully withdrawn from the daily life of the block (this would have been the period of the great escalation in my multiplex encounters with Blondy, when we most frequently “accidentally” rendezvoused, and ended up at wine bars) until the garrulous dog-walker stopped him and delivered the news: Alan Zwelish had died, suddenly, of an inoperable brain tumor, discovered only weeks before it killed him. Doris and the child had inherited whatever he had, and an insurance claim was going to keep them in the apartment across the street. Here was the full horror of a relationship that both relied on chance meetings and was subject to utter estrangement: what you could miss in an interval. In this case, the whole end. There was only one possible choice at the news. Blondy rushed to the apartment to see Doris. She let him in. Entering Zwelish’s lair for the first time ever, seeing—yes!—the high-end audio equipment and the pile of free weights, as well as the framed Motherwell, and most of all the one-year-old playing in a folding crib littered with the plush toys he suspected were Zwelish’s hand-picked tokens of adoration, made Blondy’s heart righteous, as if confirmation of his old guesses proved the claims Zwelish had always refused. Doris sat across from him, rigid in her chair, eyes dry. She offered him nothing, and he didn’t approach her, or the child—this wasn’t a visit, it was a reckoning. He started with the only words to start with, “I’m sorry,” meant as an overture to the explanations he wanted to offer whether Doris cared or understood. But she had a clarification of her own to make, one that threw his motives into irrelevancy. “I’m glad he’s gone.” Blondy hadn’t misheard. Her syntax was exact and unmistakable, despite the accent. The sentiment laid bare. “Why?” “He never let me go anywhere.” Doris’s tone was angry, the feeling fresh. “We only fighted all day.” Blondy just nodded, needed no prompting to accept the truth of this account. “I didn’t love Alan. Now we”—she turned, to make Blondy understand she included the boy—“have this. Much better.” Blondy began weeping, openly, pouring out stuff he didn’t know was inside, matters of his fear of death generally, as well as rage at Alan Zwelish for having pushed him away and at himself for having let himself be pushed. “You cry,” Doris said, not cruelly. Having been chosen or volunteered to receive the confession from Blondy that Doris Zwelish had preëmpted, I fastened on the real-estate implications. They seemed to me not inconsiderable, given Blondy’s Seventy-eighth Street rent stabilization. “Your response was to move from the block?” “I couldn’t confront the recycling lady, to begin with,” Blondy said. “Let alone watch Doris raising the kid before my eyes—what if he came out looking like Alan? The block wasn’t mine anymore. I was like a zombie—they’d be right to shun me after a while. I was embarrassed for myself, but also for Zwelish. Nobody could forget him if I didn’t go.” “So it was altruistic, moving away?” “Necessary, Grahame.” Again I felt a paranoiac certainty that in telling his tale Sigismund Blondy had enlisted me in a theatrical invention—cast me in a role—for the benefit of an unknown audience, perhaps only himself. There was no Alan Zwelish, or Alan Zwelish had never married or died: the whole episode was confabulation. For an instant I wanted to go to the library and dig for an obituary. But then I knew that the story was true. Inventing a smoker who’d quit and then succumbed to cancer was beneath Blondy. No, my feeling of unreality was a sympathetic response, not a clue to a lie: I’d been infected with Blondy’s own fear, that grandiosity had made his human self specious—a zombie. He fled Seventy-eighth Street afraid he’d made it a stage for theatrics. In his nightmares he might have heard this accusation, delivered in the recycling lady’s voice: not that he was molesting nannies but that he treated others as figures in a shadow play. The moment I suspected this horror I wanted to assuage it, by speaking of his true and inexpressible feelings for Zwelish. “You don’t choose who you love, Sigismund.” Blondy looked relieved that I was chasing a moral in his fable, rather than staring with him into the black hole of his personality. “I like that,” he mused. “You don’t choose who you love. Or who loves you. That was Alan’s problem.” “No wonder he was pissed. Whatever he was searching for, nothing could have made him expect you.” “Ha!” I’d have done anything for Blondy at that moment, and, correspondingly, I loathed Alan Zwelish, though I knew there was more Zwelish than Blondy in me, which was likely the reason I was seated here. I hated Zwelish for showing Blondy death, just as I’d hate a teen-ager for informing a five-year-old that Santa Claus was a fake. I hoped Blondy would live to a thousand, for revenge. “Let us assume that you have never killed another human being. How do you account for it?” “Sorry?” “That’s the next question.” Blondy had unfolded his photocopies again. “Or this: Which would you rather do: die or live on as a healthy animal? Which animal?” 
See the Other Side A hot day in May in Ravenna, the small Italian city where Dante is buried. Once upon a time—right at the start of the fifth century A.D.—the Emperor Honorius transferred the capital of the Western Roman Empire to this city. There was a port here then, but the sea has since receded, and in its place are swamps, roses, dust, and vineyards. Ravenna is famous for its mosaics; hordes of tourists move from one church to another, craning their necks to glimpse the dim lustre of tiny multicolored smalti high up under dusky vaults. It is possible to make out something in those vaults, but not very much. The glossy postcards, though terribly bright, flat, and cheap-looking, will give you a better view. I’m suffocating and hot. I’m depressed. My father died, and I loved him so much! Once, long, long ago, almost forty years back, he passed through Ravenna and sent me a postcard of one of these famous mosaics. On the back—in pencil, for some reason; he must have been in a hurry—he wrote, “Sweetheart! I have never seen anything so sublime (see the other side) in my life! Makes you want to cry! Oh, if only you were here! Your Father!” Each sentence ends with a silly exclamation point—he was young, he was cheerful, maybe he’d had a glass of wine. I can see him with his felt hat cocked in the manner of the late fifties, a cigarette between his white teeth—which were still his own then—beads of sweat on his forehead. Tall, slim, handsome: his eyes shine happily behind the glass circles of his spectacles.… The postcard—which he dropped in a mailbox, lightheartedly entrusting it to two unreliable postal services, the Italian and the Russian—depicts Heaven: the Lord sits amid a blindingly green paradise of eternal spring, white sheep grazing all around. Those two unreliable postal services had bent the corners of the postcard, but it didn’t matter—the message was received and everything could be seen. If Heaven exists, then my father is there now. Where else would he be? The only thing is, he died—he died and he doesn’t write me postcards with exclamation points anymore; he no longer sends tidings from all parts of the globe: I’m here, I love you. Do you love me? Do you share my pleasure and joy? Do you see the beauty that I see? Greetings! Here’s a postcard! Here’s a cheap, glossy photograph—I was here! It’s wonderful! Oh, if only you could be here, too! He travelled all over the world, and he liked the world. Now, as much as I can, I follow in his footsteps. I go to the same towns and try to see them through his eyes, try to imagine him young, turning that corner, climbing those steps, leaning on the railing of the embankment with a cigarette between his teeth. This time I’m in Ravenna, a stuffy, exhausting place, like all tourist destinations where crowds fill narrow streets. It’s a dead, hollow, hot town, with no place to sit down. The tomb of Dante, exiled from his native Florence. The tomb of Theodorich. The mausoleum of Galla Placidia, sister of Flavius Honorius, the very man who made Ravenna the capital of the Western Empire. Fifteen centuries passed. Everything changed. Dust gathered; the mosaics crumbled. What was once important is now unimportant; what once excited has vanished in the sands. The sea itself has receded, and where merry green waves once splashed there are wastelands, vineyards, silence. Forty years—a whole lifetime—ago, my father strolled and laughed here; his myopic eyes squinted; he sat at a sidewalk table, drank red wine, and tore off bites of pizza with his own, strong teeth. The dark-blue night fell. And on a postcard balanced on the edge of the table, in pencil, he scribbled a few hurried words to me, scattering exclamation points and expressing his delight and his love for the world. The overcast sky is stifling. It’s hot, but the sun can’t be seen. Dust is everywhere. Land that was once at the bottom of the sea now lies around the town in wide, fertile fields; where crabs once crawled, donkeys pick their way; in place of seaweed, roses grow. Everything has gone to seed. Along the once splendid streets of the capital of the Western world, disappointed American tourists in pink sweatshirts wander, unhappy that the travel agency has tricked them yet again: everything in Europe is so dinky, so small, so old! Fifteen centuries. Dante’s grave. The tomb of Galla Placidia. My father’s grave. Some sort of naïve green paradise on a crumpled postcard. What was it that so amazed him here? I find the right church, I look up—yes, there’s something green there, high up under the vault. White sheep on a green meadow. The usual dim light. The discordant hum of tourists below. Their fingers point. They look for explanations in their guidebooks: such-and-such a century, such-and-such a style. Everything is the same everywhere, always. You can hardly see. In every Italian church there’s a box on the wall for donations; and, for those who are interested, these boxes often provide an additional service. If you put in three hundred lira—twenty-five cents—for a brief moment spotlights are turned on near the ceiling, bathing the stones of the mosaic in fresh white light. The colors brighten. You can see details. The crowd gets excited; its hum grows louder. Only twenty-five cents. You’ve already come so far; you’ve paid for the plane ticket, for the train, the hotel, the pizza, the cold drinks, the coffee. How can you now begrudge a few extra cents? But many do. They’re annoyed; they weren’t forewarned. They want to see Heaven for free. They wait around for some other generous, impatient person to deposit a coin in the slot of that swindling Italian apparatus—all Italians are swindlers, isn’t that right? Then the spotlights flare, and for a moment, too short for the human eye to adjust, paradise is greener, the sheep more innocent, the Lord—kinder.… And then the lights go off, and the din of the tourists turns from a momentary grumble of protest to a greedy growl to whispered disappointment. Once again, everything is immersed in gloom. I wander from church to church along with the crowd. I listen to its muffled, multilingual murmur, like the rush of the sea; a slow human whirlpool spins me around, and tired, empty faces flash by—as empty as my own; eyeglasses glint; the pages of guidebooks rustle. I squeeze through the narrow doors of churches, push past my neighbors, trying, like everyone else, to get a better view, trying not to become irritated. After all, I think, if Heaven does exist it’s likely that I’ll enter it with just such a flock of sheep, of people—old, not all that smart, a bit greedy. Because if Heaven isn’t for people like us, then who is it for, I’d like to know? Are there really so many others—special people, people who are noticeably better than us ordinary, statistically average souls? No, there aren’t, so in all likelihood I will have to plod across those green meadows with a herd of American tourists, disgruntled that everything is so ancient and small. And, if that is the case, then Heaven must be awful and boring—which, by definition, seems wrong. Everything in Heaven should be utterly sublime. “I have never seen anything so sublime (see the other side) in my life!” my father wrote. See the other side. An ordinary paradise. What did he see that I don’t see? I squeeze into a small building, of which the early-twentieth-century Russian traveller Pavel Muratov wrote in his famous book “Images of Italy”: The blue of the ceiling of the mausoleum of Galla Placidia is unusually dark and deep—almost inscrutably so. Depending on the light penetrating through the small windows, it will shimmer, in a wonderful and unexpectedly marvellous manner, with a greenish, lilac, or crimson hue. It is against this background that the famous depiction of the youthful Good Shepherd, sitting among snow-white sheep, is placed. The half-circles near the windows are decorated with a large ornamental motif of deer drinking from a spring. Garlands of fruit and leaves wind along the lower arches. On viewing their magnificence one cannot help but think that never has mankind arrived at a more satisfactory solution to the problem of decorating a church wall. Owing to the small size of the mausoleum chapel, the mosaics do not create the impression of vain, cold pomp. The air surrounding the sarcophagus, shining with the blue fire of the mosaics, which once contained the embalmed body of the Empress, is a worthy dream of an ardently religious imagination. Was this not what the artists of stained glass in the Gothic cathedrals strove to achieve, only in a different way? Marvellous words! But, having pushed my way into the chapel, I can’t see anything. Perhaps Muratov’s guide illuminated the church with a torch, but now it’s simply dark in here, and whatever scant light makes its way through the windows is blocked by tourists’ backs. The crowd stands dense and stubborn, elbow to elbow. We need to put some coins into the light box, but no one is in a hurry; everyone is waiting for someone else to do it. I’m in no hurry, either. “I’ve put coins in many times,” my internal voice says. “Let someone else do it this time.” A minute passes in the stuffy dark. Another minute. Each of us thinks, I won’t give in. The darkness presses on our heads. It smells like mice, mold, and something else, too, something very old—as though time itself had an odor. Then the human smells come through: aging flesh, perfume, breath mints, sweat, tobacco. This is how it will be right after death: there will be the sound of others breathing and sniffling in the dark; heat, anticipation, a subtle hostility toward one’s fellow-travellers; a polite decision not to show this hostility; egotism, stubbornness, hope, doubt. The waiting room for Heaven—where else is there to go? “I have never seen anything so sublime (see the other side) in my life! Makes you want to cry!” my father wrote from paradise. Finally, the familiar click resounds—someone has taken the plunge. The lights come on. For a brief moment, the briefest moment—the eye doesn’t have time to take it all in, the eye casts about—the dull, hot darkness overhead becomes a starry sky, a dark-blue cupola with huge, shimmering stars that seem startlingly close. “Ahhhhh!” comes the sound from below, and then the light goes out, and again there’s darkness, darker even than before. And again the click, and the fantastic, multicolored stars, like spinning Ferris wheels, and that very same “air…shining with the blue fire”—a momentary vision—and again gloom. And again the clatter of a falling coin, followed by the click—the glorious vision, don’t go, stay with us!—and again the blow of darkness. The sinners stand as though enchanted, their faces lifted. A path has opened in the darkness, a promise has been made, evidence has been presented: all will be saved, no explanations necessary—the magical dark-blue abyss, raised above us by nameless artists, speaks for itself, sings in a wordless language. The blue flows down toward the garlands of fruit and leaves.… Everything disappears, but again and again the lights flash on, the fête is endless, and any minute now the angels will begin to sing. Let there be light! I squeeze carefully through the crowd. I want to see the insatiable being who has mounted these fireworks, who has rolled back the walls of the sepulchre with light. He sits in a wheelchair, his face lowered. There’s a box of coins in his lap. His hand gropes for one and sticks it into the slot, and, while the blue is tinted with lilac and crimson fire, a female guide hurriedly whispers in his ear words that I can’t make out, and that, even if I could, I wouldn’t understand: I don’t know this language. The man is blind. He has the reserved and patient expression of all blind people; his eyelids are closed, his head bowed, his ear bent toward his companion. What is she to him—daughter, wife, or simply someone hired to accompany him on his travels? He listens to her whisper and occasionally nods his head: yes, yes. He wants to hear more; he puts in coin after coin. He throws coins into the darkness, and from the darkness sounds a voice that tells him, as much as it is possible, about the great comfort of beauty. He listens his fill, nods, and smiles, then the woman deftly wheels his chair through the crowd and out of the mausoleum. People look at them; he doesn’t care, and she’s probably used to it. The chair bounces along the cobblestones of the square, affording the blind man a little additional suffering. A light rain drips from the clouds but soon stops. “See the other side.” But there’s nothing on the other side. On the other side there’s only darkness, heat, silence, irritation, doubt, dejection. On the other side there’s the depiction, worn with age, of something that was important long, long ago, but not to me. “Makes you want to cry!” Father wrote, forty years ago, of the beauty that struck him then (and perhaps of something greater as well). I want to cry, because he no longer exists, I don’t know where he has gone, and all that’s left of him is a mountain of papers and this postcard of a green Heaven, which I move from volume to volume like a bookmark. But maybe that is not the way things are; maybe everything was calculated long ago, a plan laid out that has only now taken effect? An anonymous Byzantine master, inspired by faith, imagined the beauty of the Lord’s garden. He expressed it in his language as well as he could; perhaps he was even frustrated that he didn’t have the skill to do more. Centuries passed. My father arrived in Ravenna, lifted his head, saw the vision of Eden, bought a cheap little picture of the picture, and sent it to me with love fortified by exclamation points—everyone chooses his own language. And, if he hadn’t sent it, I wouldn’t have come here. I wouldn’t have come to this dark chapel. I wouldn’t have encountered the blind man. I wouldn’t have seen how, with a wave of his hand, the blue light of Heaven’s threshold could flare on the other side of darkness. Because we are just as blind—no, a thousand times blinder than that old man in the wheelchair. We hear whispers but we plug our ears; we are shown but we turn away. We have no faith: we’re afraid to believe, because we’re afraid that we’ll be deceived. We are certain that we’re in the tomb. We are certain that there’s nothing in the dark. There can’t be anything in the dark. The blind man and his guide move away down the narrow streets of the small, dead town. The woman pushes the chair and says something, bending down toward the blind man’s ear, and no doubt she falters, chooses her words, words that I would never choose. He laughs at something, and she straightens his collar. She adds coins to the box in his lap, then goes into a taverna and brings out a slice of pizza. He eats gratefully, messily, his hands touching the invisible, marvellous food in the darkness.
HISTORY OF A DISTURBANC You are angry, Elena. You are furious. You are desperately unhappy. Do you know you’re becoming bitter?—bitter as those little berries you bit into, remember? in the woods that time. You are frightened. You are resentful. My vow must have seemed to you extremely cruel, or insane. You are suspicious. You are tired. I’ve never seen you so tired. And of course: you are patient. You’re very patient, Elena. I can feel that patience of yours come rolling out at me from every ripple of your unforgiving hair, from your fierce wrists and tense blouse. It’s a harsh patience, an aggressive patience. It wants something, as all patience does. What it wants is an explanation, which you feel will free you in some way—if only from the grip of your ferocious waiting. But an explanation is just what’s not possible, not now and not ever. What I can give you is only this. Call it an explanation if you like. For me it’s a stammer—a shout in the dark. Do things have beginnings, do you think? Or is a beginning only the first revelation of something that’s always been there, waiting to be found? I’m thinking of that little outing we took last summer, the one up to Sandy Point. I’d been working hard, maybe too hard, I had just finished that market-penetration study for Sherwood Merrick Associates, it was the right time to get away. You packed a picnic. You were humming in the kitchen. You were wearing those jeans I like, the ones with the left back pocket torn off, and the top of your bathing suit. I watched as you sliced a sandwich exactly in half. The sun struck your hands. Across your glowing fingers I could see the faint liquidy green cast by the little glass swan on the windowsill. It occurred to me that we rarely took these trips anymore, that we ought to do it more often. Then we were off, you in that swooping straw hat with its touch of forties glamour, I in that floppy thing that makes me look like a demented explorer. An hour later and there was the country store, with the one red gas pump in front, there was the turn. We passed the summer cottages in the pines. The little parking lot at the end of the road was only half full. Over the stone wall we looked down at the stretch of sand by the lake. We went down the rickety steps, I with the thermos and picnic basket, you with the blanket and towels. Other couples lay in the sun. Some kids were splashing in the water, which rippled from a passing speedboat that made the white barrels rise and fall. The tall lifeguard stand threw a short shadow. Across the lake was a pier, where some boys were fishing. You spread the blanket, took off your hat, shook out your hair. You sat down and began stroking your arm with sunblock. I was sitting next to you, taking it all in, the brown-green water, the wet ropes between the white barrels, the gleam of the lotion on your arm. Everything was bright and clear, and I wondered when the last time was that I’d really looked at anything. Suddenly you stopped what you were doing. You glanced around at the beach, raised your face to the sky, and said, “What a wonderful day!” I turned and looked out at the water. But I wasn’t looking at the water. I was thinking of what you had just said. It was a cry of contentment, a simple expression of delight, the sort of thing anyone might say, on such a day. But I had felt a little sharp burst of irritation. My irritation shocked me. But there it was. I’d been taking in the day, just like you, happy in all my senses. Then you said, “What a wonderful day!” and the day was less wonderful. The day—it’s really indecent to speak of these things! But it’s as if the day were composed of many separate and diverse presences—that bottle of soda tilted in the sand, that piece of blue-violet sky between the two dark pines, your green hand by the window—which suddenly were blurred together by your words. I felt that something vast and rich had been diminished somehow. I barely knew what you were talking about. I knew of course what you were talking about. But the words annoyed me. I wished you hadn’t spoken them. Something uncapturable in the day had been harmed by speech. All at once my irritation passed. The day, which had been banished, came streaming back. Spots of yellow-white sun trembled in brown tree-shadows on the lake-edge. A little girl shouted in the water. I touched your hand. Was that the beginning? Was it the first sign of a disturbance that had been growing secretly? Two weeks later the Polinzanos had that barbecue. I’d been working hard, harder than usual, putting together a report for Warren and Greene, the one on consumer perception of container shapes for sports beverages. I had all the survey results but I was having trouble writing it up, something was off, I was happy to let it go for an evening. Ralph was in high spirits, flipping over the chicken breasts, pushing down tenderly on the steaks. He waved the spatula about in grand style as he talked real estate. That new three-story monster-house on the block, could you believe two mil, those show-off window arches and did you get a load of that corny balcony, all of it throwing the neighborhood out of whack, a crazy eyesore, but hey, it was driving property values up, he could live with that. Later, in the near-dark, we sat on the screened porch watching the fireflies. From inside the house came voices, laughter. Someone walked slowly across the dark lawn. You were lying in the chaise. I was sitting in that creaky wicker armchair right next to you. Someone stood up from the glider and went into the kitchen. We were alone on the porch. Voices in the house, the shrill cries of crickets, two glasses of wine on the wicker table, moths bumping against the screens. I was in good spirits, relaxed, barely conscious of that report at the edge of my mind. You turned slowly to me. I remember the lazy roll of your head, your cheek against the vinyl strips, your hair flattened on one side, your eyelids sleepy. You said, “Do you love me?” Your voice was flirtatious, easy—you weren’t asking me to put a doubt to rest. I smiled, opened my mouth to answer, and for some reason recalled the afternoon at Sandy Point. And again I felt that burst of irritation, as if words were interposing themselves between me and the summer night. I said nothing. The silence began to swell. I could feel it pressing against both of us, like some big rubbery thing. I saw your eyes, still sleepy, begin to grow alert with confusion. And as if I were waking from a trance, I pushed away the silence, I beat it down with a yes yes yes, of course of course. You put your hand on my arm. All was well. All was not well. In bed I lay awake, thinking of my irritation, thinking of the silence, which had been, I now thought, not like some big swelling rubbery thing but like a piece of sharp metal caught in my throat. What was wrong with me? Did I love you? Of course I loved you. But to ask me just then, as I was taking in the night . . . Besides, what did the words mean? Oh, I understood them well enough, those drowsy tender words. They meant, Look, it’s a summer night, look, the lawn is dark but there’s still a little light left in the sky; they meant you wanted to hear my voice, to hear yourself ask a question that would bring you my voice—it was hardly a question at all, rather a sort of touch, rising out of the night, out of the sounds in the house, the flash of the fireflies. But you said, “Do you love me?,” which seemed to require me to understand those words and no others, to think what they might exactly mean. Because they might have meant, Do you still love me as much as you once did even though I know you do, or Isn’t it wonderful to sit here and whisper together like teen-agers on the dark porch, while people are in the bright living room, talking and laughing, or Do you feel this rush of tender feeling which is rising in me, as I sit here, on this porch, at night, in summer, at the Polinzanos’ barbecue, or Do you love everything I am and do, or only some things, and if so, which ones; and it seemed to me that that single word, “love,” was trying to compress within itself a multitude of meanings, was trying to take many precise and separate feelings and crush them into a single mushy mass, which I was being asked to hold in my hands like a big sticky ball. Do you see what was happening? Do you see what I’m trying to say? Despite these warnings, I hadn’t yet understood. I didn’t, at this stage, see the connection between the afternoon at Sandy Point, the night at the Polinzanos’ barbecue, and the report that was giving me so much trouble. I knew something was wrong, a little wrong, but I thought I’d been working too hard, I needed to relax a little, or maybe—I tried to imagine it—maybe the trouble was with us, with our marriage, a marriage problem. I don’t know when I began to suspect it was more dangerous than that. Not long after the Polinzanos’ barbecue I found myself at the supermarket, picking up a few things for the weekend. You know how I love supermarkets. It excites me to walk down those big American avenues piled high with the world’s goods, as if the spoils of six continents are being offered to me in the aftermath of a triumphant war. At the same time I enjoy taking note of brand-name readability, shelf positioning, the attention-drawing power of competing package designs. I was in a buoyant mood. My work had gone well that day, pretty well. I wheeled my cart into the checkout line, set out my bags and boxes on the rubber belt, swiped my card. The girl worked her scanner and touch screen, and I watched with pleasure as the product names appeared sharply on the new LCD monitor facing me above her shoulder. Only two years ago I’d designed a questionnaire on consumer attitudes toward point-of-sale systems in supermarket chains. I signed my slip and handed it to the girl. She smiled at me and said, “Have a good day.” Instantly my mood changed. This time it wasn’t irritation that seized me but a kind of nervousness. What was she trying to say to me? I realized that this thought was absurd. At the same time I stared at the girl, trying to grasp her meaning. Have a good day! What were the words trying to say? At the word “have” her front teeth had pressed into her lip: a big overbite. She looked at me. Have a good day! Good day! Have! “What do you—” I said, and abruptly stopped. Things became very still. I saw two tiny silver rings at the top of her ear, one ring slightly larger than the other. I saw the black plastic edge of the credit-card terminal, a finger with purple nail polish, a long strip of paper with a red stripe running along each border. These elements seemed independent of one another. Somewhere a cash tray slid open, coins clanked. Then the finger joined the girl, the tray banged shut, I was standing by my shopping cart, studying the mesh pattern of the collapsible wire basket, trying to recall what was already slipping away. “You too,” I said, as I always do, and fled with my cart. At dinner that evening I felt uneasy, as if I were concealing a secret. Once or twice I thought you were looking at me strangely. I studied the saltshaker, which looked pretty much the way it had always looked, but with, I thought, some slight change I couldn’t account for. In the middle of the night I woke suddenly and thought, Something is happening to me, things will never be the same. Then I felt, across the lower part of my stomach, a first faint ripple of fear. In the course of the next few days I began listening with close attention to whatever was said to me. I listened to each part of what was said, and I listened to the individual words that composed each part. Words! Had I ever listened to them before? Words like crackles of cellophane, words like sluggish fat flies buzzing on sunny windowsills. The simplest remark began to seem suspect, a riddle—not devoid of meaning, but with a vague haze of meaning that grew hazier as I tried to clutch it. “Not on your life.” “You bet!” “I guess so.” I would be moving smoothly through my day when suddenly I’d come up against one of them, a word-snag, an obstacle in my path. A group of words would detach themselves from speech and stand at mock attention, sticking out their chests, as if to say, Here we are! Who are you? It was as if some space had opened up, a little rift, between words and whatever they were supposed to be doing. I stumbled in that space, I fell. At the office I was still having difficulties with my report. The words I had always used had a new sheen of strangeness to them. I found it necessary to interrogate them, to investigate their intentions. Sometimes they were slippery, like fistfuls of tiny silvery fish. Sometimes they took on a mineral hardness, as if they’d become things in themselves, but strange things, like growths of coral. I don’t mean to exaggerate. I knew what words meant, more or less. A cup was a cup, a window a window. That much was clear. Was that much clear? There began to be moments of hesitation, fractions of a second when the thing I was looking at refused to accept any language. Or rather, between the thing and the word a question had appeared, a slight pause, a rupture. I recall one evening, it must have been a few weeks later, when I stepped from the darkened dining room into the brightly lit kitchen. I saw a whitish thing on the white kitchen table. In that instant the whitishness on the white table was mysterious, ungraspable. It seemed to spill onto the table like a fluid. I felt a rush of fear. A moment later everything changed. I recognized a cup, a simple white cup. The word pressed it into shape, severed it—as if with the blow of an axe—from everything that surrounded it. There it was: a cup. I wondered what it was I’d seen before the word tightened about it. I said to myself, “You’ve been working too hard. Your brain is tired. You are not able to concentrate your attention. The words you are using appear to be the same words you have always used, but they’ve changed in some way, a way you cannot grasp. When this report is done, you are going to take a vacation. That will be good.” I imagined myself in a clean hotel, high up, on the side of a mountain. I imagined myself alone. I think it was at this period that my own talk began to upset me. The words I uttered seemed like false smiles I was displaying at a party I’d gone to against my will. Sometimes I would overhear myself in the act of speech, like a man who suddenly sees himself in a mirror. Then I grew afraid. I began to speak less. At the office, where I’d established a long habit of friendliness, I stayed stubbornly at my desk, staring at my screen and limiting myself to the briefest of exchanges, which themselves were not difficult to replace with gestures—a nod, a wave, a smile, a shrug. It’s surprising how little you need to say, really. Besides, everyone knew I was killing myself over that report. At home I greeted you silently. I said almost nothing at dinner and immediately shut myself up in my study. You hated my silence. For you it was a knife-blade aimed at your neck. You were the victim and I was the murderer. That was the silent understanding we came to, quite early. And of course I didn’t murder you just once, I murdered you every day. I understood this. I struggled to be—well, noisier, for your sake. The words I heard emerging from my mouth sounded like imitations of human speech. “Yes, it’s hot, but not too hot,” I said. “I think that what she probably meant was that she . . .” The fatal fissure was there. On one side, the gush of language. On the other—what? I looked about. The world rushed away on all sides. If only one could be silent! In my study I avoided my irritating desk with its neat binders containing bar charts and statistical tables and sat motionless in the leather chair, looking out the window at the leaves of hydrangea bushes. I felt tremendously tired, but also alert. Not to speak, not to form words, not to think, not to smear the world with sentences—it was like the release of a band of metal tightening around my skull. I was still able to do some work, during the day, a little work, though I was also staring a lot at the screen. I had command of a precise and specialized vocabulary that I could summon more or less at will. But the doubt had arisen, corroding my belief. Groups of words began to disintegrate under my intense gaze. I was like a man losing his faith, with no priest to turn to. Always I had the sense that words concealed something, that if only I could abolish them I would discover what was actually there. One evening I looked for a long time at my hand. Had I ever seen it before? I suppressed the word “hand,” rid myself of everything but the act of concentration. It was no longer a hand, not a piece of flesh with nails, wrinkles, bits of reddish-blond hair. There was only a thing, not even that—only the place where my attention fell. Gradually I felt a loosening, a dissolution of the familiar. And I saw: a thickish mass, yellowish and red and blue, a pulsing thing with spaces, a shaded clump. It began to flatten out, to melt into surrounding space, to attach itself to otherness. Then I was staring at my hand again, the fingers slightly parted, the skin of the knuckles like small walnuts, the nails with vertical lines of faint shine. I could feel the words crawling over my hand like ants on a bone. But for a moment I had seen something else. I am a normal man, wouldn’t you say, intelligent and well educated, yes, with an aptitude for a certain kind of high-level work, but fundamentally normal, in temperament and disposition. I understood that what was happening to me was not within the range of the normal, and I felt, in addition to curiosity, an anger that this had come upon me, in the prime of life, like the onset of a fatal disease. It was during one of those long evenings in my study, while you prowled somewhere in the house, that I recalled an incident from my childhood. For some reason I was in my parents’ bedroom, a forbidden place. I heard footsteps approaching. In desperation I stepped over to the closet, with its two sliding doors, then rolled one door open, plunged inside, pushed it shut. The long closet was divided into two parts, my mother’s side and my father’s side. I knew at once which side I’d entered by the dresses pressing against my cheeks, the tall pairs of high-heeled shoes falling against my ankles as I moved deeper within. Clumsily I crouched down among the fallen shoes, my head and shoulders buried in the bottoms of dresses And though I liked the sweetish, urine–sharp smell of the leather shoes, the rub of the dresses against my face, the hems heavy on my shoulders, the faint perfume drifting from folds of fabric like dust from a slapped bed, at the same time I felt oppressed by it all, bound tightly in place by the thick leathery smell and the stony fall of cloth, crushed in a black grip. The dresses, the shoes, the pinkish smell of perfume, the scratchy darkness, all pushed against me like the side of a big cat, thrust themselves into my mouth and nose like fur. I could not breathe. I opened my mouth. I felt the dark like fingers closing around my throat. In terror I stumbled up with a harsh scrape of hangers, pulled wildly at the edge of the door, burst outside. Light streamed through the open blinds. Tears of joy burned on my cheeks. As I sat in my study, recalling my escape from the dresses, it seemed to me that the light streaming through my parents’ blinds, in the empty room, was like the silence around me where I sat, and that the heavy dresses, the bittersweet smell of the shoes, the hand on my throat, were the world I had left behind. I began to sense that there was another place, a place without words, and that if only I could concentrate my attention sufficiently, I might come to that place. Once, when I was a student and had decided to major in business, I had an argument with a friend. He attacked business as a corrupt discipline, the sole purpose of which was to instill in people a desire to buy. His words upset me, not because I believed that his argument was sound but because I felt that he was questioning my character. I replied that what attracted me to business was the precision of its vocabulary—a self-enclosed world of carefully defined words that permitted clarity of thought. At the office I could see people looking at me and also looking away from me. The looks reminded me of the look I had caught in the eyes of the girl with the little rings in her ear, as I tried to understand her words, and the look in your eyes that night at the Polinzanos’ barbecue, when I opened my mouth and said nothing. It was about this time that I began to notice, within me, an intention taking shape. I wondered how long it had been there, waiting for me to notice it. Though my mind was made up, my body hesitated. I was struck by how like me that was: to know, and not to act. Had I always been that way? It would be necessary to arrange a sick leave. There would be questions, difficulties. But aside from all that, finally to go through with it, never to turn back—such acts were not at all in my style. And if I hesitated, it was also because of you. There you were, in the house. Already we existed in a courteous dark silence trembling with your crushed-down rage. How could I explain to you that words no longer meant what they once had meant, that they no longer meant anything at all? How could I say to you that words interfered with the world? Often I thought of trying to let you know what I knew I would do. But whenever I looked at you, your face was turned partly away. I tried to remember what it was like to be a very young child, before the time of words. And yet, weren’t words always there, filling the air around me? I remember faces bending close, uttering sounds, coaxing me to leave the world of silence, to become one of them. Sometimes, when I moved my face a little, I could almost feel my skin brushing against words, like clusters of tiny, tickling insects. One night after you’d gone to bed I rose slowly in my study. I observed myself with surprise, though I knew perfectly well what was happening. Without moving my lips, I took a vow. The next morning at breakfast I passed you a slip of paper. You glanced at it with disdain, then crumpled it in your fist. I remember the sound of the paper, which reminded me of fire. Your knuckles stuck up like stones. When a monk takes a vow of silence, he does so in order to shut out the world and devote himself exclusively to things of the spirit. My vow of silence sought to renew the world, to make it appear before me in all its fullness. I knew that every element in the world—a cup, a tree, a day—was inexhaustible. Only the words that expressed it were vague or limited. Words harmed the world. They took something away from it and put themselves in its place. When one knows something like that, Elena, one also knows that it isn’t possible to go on living in the old way. I began to wonder whether anything I had ever said was what I had wanted to say. I began to wonder whether anything I had ever written was what I had wanted to write, or whether what I had wanted to write was underneath, trying to push its way through. After dinner that day, the day of the crumpled paper, I didn’t go to my study but sat in the living room. I was hoping to soothe you somehow, to apologize to you with my presence. You stayed in the bedroom. Once, you walked from the bedroom to the guest room, where I heard you making up the bed. One night as I sat in my leather chair, I had the sensation that you were standing at the door. I could feel a hot place at the back of my neck. I imagined you there in the doorway, looking at me with cold fascination, with a sort of tender and despairing iciness. I saw your tired eyes, your strained mouth. Were you trying to understand me? After all, you were my wife, Elena, and we had once been able to understand each other. I turned suddenly, but no one was there. Do you think it’s been easy for me? Do you? Do you think I don’t know how grotesque it must seem? A grown man, forty-three years old, in excellent health, happily married, successful enough in his line of work, who suddenly refuses to speak, who flees the sound of others speaking, shuns the sight of the written word, avoids his wife, leaves his job, in order to shut himself up in his room or take long solitary walks—the idea is clownish, disgusting. The man is mad, sick, damaged, in desperate need of a doctor, a lover, a vacation, anything. Stick him in a ward. Inject him with something. But then, think of the other side. Think of it! Think of the terrible life of words, the unstoppable roar of sound that comes rushing out of people’s mouths and seems to have no object except the evasion of silence. The talking species! We’re nothing but an aberration, an error of Nature. What must the stones think of us? Sometimes I imagine that if we were very still we could hear, rising from the forests and oceans, the quiet laughter of animals, as they listen to us talk. And then, lovely touch, the invention of an afterlife, a noisy eternity filled with the racket of rejoicing angels. My own heaven would be an immense emptiness—a silence bright and hard as the blade of a sword. Listen, Elena. Listen to me. I have something to say to you, which can’t be said. As I train myself to cast off words, as I learn to erase word-thoughts, I begin to feel a new world rising up around me. The old world of houses, rooms, trees, and streets shimmers, wavers, and tears away, revealing another universe as startling as fire. We are shut off from the fullness of things. Words hide the world. They blur together elements that exist apart, or they break elements into pieces, bind up the world, contract it into hard little pellets of perception. But the unbound world, the world behind the world—how fluid it is, how lovely and dangerous. At rare moments of clarity, I succeed in breaking through. Then I see. I see a place where nothing is known, because nothing is shaped in advance by words. There, nothing is hidden from me. There, every object presents itself entirely, with all its being. It’s as if, looking at a house, you were able to see all four sides and both roof slopes. But then, there’s no “house,” no “object,” no form that stops at a boundary, only a stream of manifold, precise, and nameless sensations, shifting into each other, pullulating, a fullness, a flow. Stripped of words, untamed, the universe pours in on me from every direction. I become what I see. I am earth, I am air. I am all. My eyes are suns. My hair streams among galaxies. I am often tired. I am sometimes discouraged. I am always sure. And still you’re waiting, Elena—even now. Even now you’re waiting for the explanation, the apology, the words that will justify you and set you free. But underneath that waiting is another waiting: you are waiting for me to return to the old way. Isn’t it true? Listen, Elena. It’s much too late for that. In my silent world, my world of exhausting wonders, there’s no place for the old words with which I deceived myself, in my artificial garden. I had thought that words were instruments of precision. Now I know that they devour the world, leaving nothing in its place. And you? Maybe a moment will come when you’ll hesitate, hearing a word. In that instant lies your salvation. Heed the hesitation. Search out the space, the rift. Under this world there is another, waiting to be born. You can remain where you are, in the old world, tasting the bitter berries of disenchantment, or you can overcome yourself, rip yourself free of the word-lie, and enter the world that longs to take you in. To me, on this side, your anger is a failure of perception, your sense of betrayal a sign of the unawakened heart. Shed all these dead modes of feeling and come with me—into the glory of the fire. Enough. You can’t know what these words have cost me, I who no longer have words to speak with. It’s like returning to the house of one’s childhood: there is the white picket fence, there is the old piano, the Schumann on the music rack, the rose petals beside the vase, and there, look!—above the bannister, the turn at the top of the stairs. But all has changed, all’s heavy with banishment, for we are no longer who we were. Down with it. You too, Elena: let it go. Let your patience go, your bitterness, your sorrow—they’re nothing but words. Leave them behind, in a box in the attic, the one with all the broken dolls. Then come down the stairs and out into the unborn world. Into the sun. The sun. 
The Swan David knew that something was wrong as soon as he saw Suzie. He had noticed as he parked on the drive that her car was missing, but he’d assumed that she was taking Hannah to ballet class or Joel to swimming; he didn’t always remember the busy running order of the children’s arrangements. Through the lit window as he came around the side of the house he could see his family in the kitchen eating pizza, and it did occur to him then that it was late for them to be having supper. They couldn’t see him, in the dark outside. They lived in a new estate at the growing tip of Cardiff, near the motorway that circled the periphery; beyond them there was only a golf course and then fields. David paused before he opened the back door, enjoying a moment alone in the humming dark that was always nervous with the noise from the motorway: not a roar, but a thin murmur of movement that sucked substance from everything it reached. David didn’t mind this; he even felt it as a kind of lightness. “Where’ve you left the car?” he asked as he wiped his feet on the back-door mat. Suzie was putting something in the microwave; she didn’t turn. “Smashed up,” Hannah said, relishing the words. She was standing at the table to eat her pizza, and had a piece of tomato on her chin. She liked crisis. Joel, who didn’t, sat absorbed in some game with his Beanie Babies. “You’re joking.” “I was involved in an accident,” Suzie said calmly. “On the motorway, on my way home from the teachers’ center. But I’m all right. It was raining, and the car in front of me hit a lorry pulling out. No one was hurt, amazingly enough. But the car’s a write-off.” “Good God,” David said. “Why didn’t you call me?” Suzie shrugged. “I was O.K. There was no need.” But he knew as she turned around that she wasn’t O.K. Usually Suzie was sturdy and steady; she had a wholesome, closed muzzle of a face that made him think of a fox, with her sandy coloring and the fine fair down that showed in a certain light. She was tall and lean and big-boned, her broad shoulders set defiantly; only now something had been jangled loose in her, as if she’d touched a live wire. Her hair had dried in a dark mat that clung to her head, and it frightened him to see her blue eyes startled open. “I wish you’d called me.” She tried to smile at him. When she put Joel’s plate down on the table, he saw that her hands were shaking. “Never mind,” she said. “It doesn’t matter now.” David made her describe to him exactly where the accident had taken place; he wanted to understand why this lorry had pulled out into traffic so carelessly. Suzie couldn’t remember things precisely. It had all happened very fast, she said. He imagined the chaos, the rain, the scorch of horror that had brushed close. “Where’s Jamie?” he said angrily. “Why isn’t he helping?” Jamie was David’s seventeen-year-old son from his first marriage. “Upstairs. Why don’t you call him? Ask him if he wants pizza.” “You shouldn’t be standing here doing all this. Go and lie down. I’ll take over. I’ll bring you a cup of tea, or a drink.” “I’d rather be busy, really.” Jamie was in his bedroom, in the attic. He lay on his back on the bed, smoking, and he didn’t even turn his head as David lifted the trapdoor and climbed through; the room was thick with the rank smell of weed. A familiar sensation of impotence seized David; he didn’t know how to talk to this boy, how to guess his thoughts, or how to forbid what ought to be forbidden to him. Jamie didn’t rage or fight. He simply ignored whatever they told him: don’t pull the ladder up into the attic behind you; don’t smoke in the house; don’t stay out at night without letting us know where you are. When they tried to be outraged, he just smiled as though he were embarrassed for them. David opened the skylight to let out the smell. “Suzie wants to know if you want pizza.” “Is she O.K. now?” Jamie said. “I’m sorry about the swan.” “What swan?” “Hasn’t she told you? The one that came down on her car.” “On her car? What are you talking about?” He thought the boy might be befuddled with marijuana. Jamie propped himself up on his elbow. He was wearing some sort of torn sleeveless vest; he shook back the thick hair that he chopped off with scissors at shoulder length. Something in his wide face—a faint adolescent rash over the thickening cheekbones, distinctive creases under the eyes, and black brows like quick pencil strokes—stirred and pained David; the boy resembled his mother, Francesca, which was not reassuring. His big brown feet at the end of the bed were bare, with dirty soles and coarse knobbled toes; they had transformed from soft child feet in some instant when David wasn’t looking. “A swan came down and hit her car, made her swerve into the fast lane. It must have hit the power lines. Then it bounced against the side of a lorry and onto her bonnet.” The picture was vivid to David for a moment: melodramatic, not Suzie’s kind of thing at all. “Why didn’t she tell me it was a swan? Perhaps she didn’t want to talk about it in front of the children?” “That’s probably why,” Jamie said. “You know what Hannah’s like. She’d be more upset about the swan than if people had been hurt.” The children reacted in the aftermath of the accident. Hannah thumped through her keyboard practice with hot cheeks and wept extravagantly when Suzie told her off for tickling Joel. Joel lay mute and still in his bath, then shivered in his Spider-Man pajamas and refused to get into bed because he had caught sight of the moon through his bedroom window. He had been afraid of the moon when he was a baby. When David came downstairs after reading to them, he found Suzie standing in the kitchen over a sink full of winter branches that she’d cut to take to school for her nature table: bedraggled yellow jasmine, gnarled apple, and silver birch thickening and reddening with buds. Her hair was wet again, and in the centrally heated air he could smell the cold breath of the rain-soaked garden. She pretended to be busy, tying up the branches with twine. Her hands were big and unbeautiful: skilled at cutting out pictures with children’s scissors, tying laces, rubbing cream into grazed knees. “You shouldn’t be going in to school tomorrow.” “I’m all right,” she said heavily, without looking at him. He expected her to tell him then what had really happened on the motorway, but she didn’t speak. After David had watched “Newsnight,” they went upstairs. He lay in bed going over a paper he had to deliver at a Health Protection conference the next day while Suzie sorted piles of clean laundry and put them away. The children had fresh clothes every day; the airing cupboard was piled high with ironed sheets and towels. Even though the house had been newly decorated when they bought it, four years earlier, Suzie had redone every room. Her little touches were everywhere: curtain tiebacks, friezes pasted onto the wallpaper, bowls of potpourri, carved acorn light pulls, dishes of glass pebbles, thriving houseplants. The children’s toys were tidied away into labelled storage boxes every night. The only place that Suzie hadn’t reached was Jamie’s attic; Jamie had once calmly said that he would leave home if she ever touched anything in there, and Suzie had agreed that if he wanted to live in a pit then who was she to interfere. All the transactions between these two used to flare with violence, even though Suzie had looked after Jamie since he was small, but things had been better lately. Suzie finished putting the clothes away and began to undress for her shower; she fumbled out of her clothes with her shoulder blades hunched, as if she were uncomfortably aware of being watched. Usually she was blithely indifferent; the readiness with which she stripped had shocked him when they first slept together. “Why didn’t you tell me about the swan?” he asked, looking at her over the top of his reading glasses while she was smothered inside her T-shirt. When she pulled off the shirt, her hair, still stiff with rain, stuck up in ruff around her face, as if she were roused against him. “How did you know?” “You told Jamie.” “Did I? I suppose I did.” She sat down in her underwear on the padded chest at the foot of the bed, hugging her arms around herself, her long back bent. “I’m sorry,” he said. “I don’t mean to make you talk about it. All that matters is that you’re not hurt.” “You wouldn’t like it,” Suzie said. “What wouldn’t I like?” “What I felt I saw.” “How could I mind?” She lifted her eyes; her face was cloudy with the effort of thought. “When this thing came hurtling down out of the sky at me, I thought it was Francesca.” Suzie had never known David’s first wife, who had killed herself by jumping off a balcony. “Oh, for God’s sake.” “I hadn’t been thinking about her. I never think about her. Then: thump, on my bonnet. It was her—intuitively I just knew.” “That’s ridiculous.” “You see? I knew you’d hate it.” David took off his glasses and folded them. “I don’t feel anything about it except that it doesn’t mean anything. The mind throws up all kinds of rubbish when you’re in shock.” “She wasn’t rubbish.” He was patient, looking away from her. “I didn’t mean her, needless to say. I just meant your making any kind of association between that and what happened to you today.” “We never talk about her.” He shrugged. “Why would we? What could there be to say, after all this time?” “You can’t imagine the force of the blow when it hit me, how heavily it fell. The whole car leaped—it leaped. Surely too heavy for a swan. And then everything went dark. I didn’t have time to think of any rational explanation.” “But now you know what the rational explanation was.” “Yes, I suppose so.” Suzie stood to go and take her shower. When she climbed into bed, he had already turned off the light on his side, and he closed his eyes as if he were asleep. Pressing up close against his back, she made him too hot. “Tell me about Francesca,” she pleaded into his pajama top, her voice muffled, so that at first he wasn’t sure what he’d heard. “Whatever for? I’m asleep.” “Tell me. It’s important.” He turned over to face her in the dark. “You know all there is to know.” “No, I don’t. We hardly ever talk about her.” “When someone’s dead, after a while there’s nothing new to say. That’s natural.” “If I died, would you be this calm about it?” “You used not to want to discuss all this.” “I know. But now I can’t stop thinking about her. How did you go to sleep together, when you were lying in bed like this? Which side did she like to lie on? What did she wear to bed?” David dutifully thought about it. “I can’t remember,” he said. “It’s been fifteen years.” “Fourteen.” “I don’t know what she wore.” “You must be able to remember.” “We kept such different hours. I’d be getting up to go to work sometimes as she was coming to bed.” He did remember that when Fran-cesca was very pregnant she had been able to sleep only sitting up in an armchair. But that was also the time when she began to imagine that it wasn’t a baby growing inside her but a demon that would split her open and kill her when it was born. He didn’t want to tell Suzie about that. Instead, he kissed her, and she fell asleep easily, despite everything, breathing lightly through her nose, radiating clean heat scented with whatever shampoo she’d used. David lay aridly awake. Long afterward, he heard Jamie dropping down from his trapdoor like a cat, prowling the house, helping himself to food in the kitchen, letting himself out the front door with his bike; he cycled for hours at night and then slept half the day, probably missing classes at school. David tried to imagine how it would feel to sleep and wake when you wanted to, to choose your life without thinking of anybody else, not to be broken into the hard frame of adult necessity. David and Suzie had met in Regent’s Park. Neither of them had ever been there before that day, and neither ever went back, so it remained a bright free space in their imaginations: sunlit stately walks, aisles of tall flowers, fountains splashing. Suzie was in the second year of her teacher training, skipping lectures. David, who was working for his Part One medical exams then, had a morning off; he was wheeling Jamie in his pushchair. Jamie was really too old for the pushchair, but he refused to walk anywhere; he’d sit with his knees almost up to his chin, weaving his old rag of yellow blanket into its ritual knot between his fingers and sucking the corner that was wrapped around his thumb, frowning out at the world from behind its shelter. That morning in the park, he had hurt himself. Probably he’d trailed his foot and David had run over it; that was always happening. Suzie was a tall fair girl in a sleeveless flowered dress, passing; at first, David had only resented the fact that she was a witness to his shame, his helplessness, the screaming child. That year after Francesca’s death was the hardest year of his life. Suzie was eating an ice cream. She hesitated and looked at Jamie. “Would he like some?” David had lifted him out of the pushchair and put him on a park bench; Suzie sat down and tentatively held out her ice-cream cone. “If you want it,” she said, “you have to stop crying and come and sit on my knee.” Jamie had looked at her suspiciously, but then, to David’s surprise, climbed into her lap; he wasn’t a child who cuddled easily, but he allowed himself to be hugged against her chest in return for licks of ice cream; his sobs subsided. Suzie’s freckled arms around him were awkward, as if she weren’t used to little children. “I’m afraid he’ll make you sticky.” “I don’t care. This is only an old thing.” When David said then that her dress was pretty, he was just being polite—he didn’t take much notice of women’s clothes—but Suzie misinterpreted. She’d only stopped in the first place, she told him later, because she thought he was attractive. “Where’s his mum?” she asked, appraising David frankly. That scene—the child calm and surrendered on her lap—hadn’t been at all representative of what was to follow. Suzie had found mothering Jamie fraught and difficult; Jamie had not often allowed her close. But in that decisive hour Suzie had seemed to David uncomplicatedly open, like a door out of the dark maze of his troubles. In the days after the accident with the swan, Suzie began to talk about a new friend at school, a teacher who was fill-ing in for a woman on maternity leave. She said that this new teacher, Menna, had read her palm in the staff room one lunchtime; Suzie tried to laugh as if this were just funny, but David could tell that it excited her. She wouldn’t look him in the eye—she’d mentioned it deliberately while she was filling the dishwasher, so that she didn’t have to see his response. “So what did she tell you?” “It’s not what you’d think, not strangers and crossing the water and all that. She told me about my mother—that was the amazing part. She said that my mother was careless with precious things. She said that a ring had been lost, which is exactly what happened to my grandmother’s ring; my mother lost it when we were on a beach. I’ve never told anyone about that. I’d forgotten it until she said it.” “So what did she see in your future?” She was vague then. “I don’t know. The useful stuff. Change.” David was embarrassed for Suzie, because the trickery seemed so obvious; his own rationalism was complete, penetrating all his instincts. He imagined this fortune-telling woman at first as frumpy and middle-aged, but, when she came to give Suzie a lift to school one morning, Menna looked like a child, not much older than Jamie. She was tiny, with a white face and black pits of eyes and dyed-black hair braided with beads and ribbons; she stood in the doorway straight and unsmiling, and reminded him of one of those old-fashioned dolls with jointed wooden arms and legs. Suzie began to see Men-na in the evenings, too, at her house. David suspected that they were having some kind of séances. It even came into his head once, when he found Suzie rummaging in the desk in his study, that she was looking for photographs of Francesca. One warm weekend, Suzie took the children camping in west Wales with Menna and her boyfriend, Neil. On Sunday night, they came home late, hours later than she had told him to expect them, by which time David was frantic with worry. An old Dormobile van, painted with flowers and with a fart-ing exhaust, dropped them off in the drive. By the time he opened the door, it was gone. Suzie was stoned, really stoned; when he looked for her in her eyes he couldn’t find her. His children, too, seemed transformed by their short time away, tanned and dishevelled and staring with exhaustion. They even smelled alien: of some mixture of smoke and earth, pee and petrol. He was outraged at Suzie’s irresponsibility, getting into that state while she was in charge of the children. “We had a good time,” Hannah and Joel insisted, but didn’t smile. He bathed them tenderly and put them in clean pajamas; they didn’t even ask for stories—they melted into sleep almost as he was lifting the duvets over them. As he did all this, he heard Suzie throwing up noisily in the bathroom. “What is this about?” he said. “What were you doing?” She was propped against the sink in her bra and trousers, her hair dripping wet as if she’d been pouring water over her head to try to sober up. “Having fun, that’s all,” she said idiotically, with the water running down her face and neck. “But you wouldn’t know about that.” “It’s a peculiar kind of fun. Look at you. The children are wiped out. They have to go to school tomorrow. So do you, but that’s your business.” “What are you accusing me of?” “You can go where you want,” he said. “But you’re not taking the children off with that crew again.” “They had a fantastic time. Just because they’re tired now—” “Who was driving?” David said. “What had he been smoking?” “Oh, I’m going to go and sleep in Joel’s room,” Suzie said, pushing past him, picking up her pillow from the bed, rummaging for pajamas in a drawer, slamming it shut with the clothes still hanging half out of it. “I’ll go and sleep in there,” David said with a sigh, performing weary patience. “You stay here. You might need to be near the bathroom.” He moved to close the drawer. “I don’t want you to touch me!” she exclaimed, backing off, hugging the pillow to her chest. “Don’t even touch me.” He hadn’t thought of touching her, but when she shrieked at him he felt a vivid tingling in his hand, as if he’d slapped her face with all his strength; he stood away from her quickly, letting her go, then he slumped down onto the side of the bed. He heard her vomiting again, in the other toilet. In the morning, Suzie was chastened. She reassured him that Neil had been perfectly safe to drive, Menna had been fine, she had been the only one who was poorly—she must have reacted badly to something, she was sorry. And the children, although they drooped and whined all week, slipped fragments of their adventures into their conversations with him in delighted voices that didn’t expect him to understand: the nights so dark, the torch that failed, the barbecue built from stones, the thieving goats. Jamie remarked conversationally that the skunk that Su-zie’s friends had been smoking was proba-bly hydroponically grown and much stronger than anything she was used to, which would be why it had made her ill. David heard him out in silence, then shrugged, as if it were a matter of indifference to him. Suzie went on sleeping in the top bunk in Joel’s room. She began to be out at Menna’s all the time. David had no idea what she got up to there—she wouldn’t talk about it. She neglected the house, which had always been immaculate. The children missed her; they grew sulky and unhappy. Jamie often had to look after them until David got home from work. Suzie brought home New Age books that David couldn’t bring himself to look at. On a few occasions, he thought she was high on something again: short of breath, hectic, with dilated pupils, looking at the children as if they weren’t there. He didn’t know what her new friends were giving her—magic mushrooms or cactus or pills—and he wouldn’t inquire. She seemed to get to school most days. Once, when he tried to ask her what the matter was, she put her hand over his mouth, shaking her head to warn him off, as if someone were watching them and she was under a vow of noncommunication, although they were alone. One night, he and Suzie went out together to a party at the house of some friends, beside the lake in one of the old city parks. He tried to enjoy himself, but all the time he was aware of her moving back and forth between the rooms, not talking to anyone. They were his friends, really, people he knew through the hospital. Suzie was wearing a white trouser suit, with a blouse of some blue silky stuff that shifted over her breasts when she breathed; it looked good on her but was perhaps a bit brash for this party, where everyone else seemed to be wearing subtle, sombre colors. They left after only an hour or so. “It wasn’t too bad, was it?” he said hopefully once they were sitting in the car. Instead of replying, she exhaled as if she were getting rid of something, and threw her head back, staring up through the dark at the felt lining of the roof. “Will you let me out?” she said then, as they drove along the lake, which sent its pale light flashing like a signal between the passing trees. “Let you out?” “Not here. I’ll give you directions.” Baffled, he held his hands in the air above the steering wheel. “It wasn’t that bad.” “You wouldn’t know. Turn left here, and go back down the park. It isn’t too far. I’ll get a taxi later. I’m not ready to come home yet.” Dumbly, he drove where she told him to go. Eventually, beyond a railway bridge, they pulled up in front of a row of little mid-Victorian cottages he’d never noticed before. He couldn’t make them out very well in the dark; behind the huddle of their overgrown front gardens, they seemed cozier and more secretive than the usual austere long terraces in this part of the city. “This is it,” Suzie said. “I’ll see you later, but don’t wait up.” “Can’t I come in with you?” “No,” she said, and put a hand on his arm, as if postponing something, promising something for another time. He watched her pick her way up a path whose faint paleness was blurred by overgrowing shrubs and then lost in the thick overhang of shadows from the house; he knew that she turned to look at him once, because he made out the weak blob of her face. Then another car, lights glaring, came up behind him and he had to move. He drove around the block to go past the house again, and paused with the engine running, peering into the garden. There was no sign of habitation, apart from a dim gleam in the glass fanlight above the front door. But Suzie in her white trouser suit had vanished, presumably inside. David gathered himself in a great effort of concentration on the children, his younger children. He tried to reëstablish their routines: mealtimes, Hannah’s piano lessons, Joel’s pottery on Saturday mornings, bedtimes, baths, tooth-brushing. Joel didn’t like his new teacher. Hannah feuded, crossed out and rewrote names on the list she actually kept, in a notebook, of her best friends. He took for granted that these difficulties were manifestations of their distress over the situation at home; he told them that their mother was overtired, that she had problems at work. He couldn’t, on top of all this, begin to think properly about Jamie. If he did think about him, he felt sure that he wasn’t doing enough work for his A levels. Whenever David had reason to go up to the attic, the boy was lying on his back on the bed, smoking, doing nothing; he had difficulty controlling how angry this made him, the empty space of his older son’s life. Suzie came and went; she wouldn’t talk to him beyond practicalities, and she wasn’t very interested in those. She slept, when she slept at home, in the study, downstairs. What happened to her touched him only remotely now; it had begun to seem improbable that they had lived together for all these years. He judged her coldly. Their arrangement, living apart in the same house, ought to have felt eccentric; robustly, they adapted. One evening when the weather was fine, they drove over to the nearby parkland together. David had said that they ought to discuss things. They sat side by side on the grass at the top of a long sloping field where, at the weekend, families picnicked and played cricket and flew kites; midweek, they had it to themselves. David kept an eye on his watch, afraid they would miss the locking of the park gates. Even as he worried about this, he was carried away by a rage that seemed to blow into him from nowhere. He began shouting at Suzie. What he resented most about what was happening, he told her, was that she was making a stupid person’s mistake, falling for fakery and tricks. He wouldn’t have minded if she had fallen in love or was going through any other sort of crisis, if she would only talk to him about it, like a grownup. This came out so clearly formulated that David realized he must have been working it all out to himself at home. His whole body shook as the words flooded out of him. Suzie lay back on the grass. “It’s you who’s stupid,” she said. “Something’s happening to me—the first sign of it was the accident—but you’re too busy seeing through everything.” “How dare you blame me? What is this thing, anyway, that’s supposed to be happening to you?” She rolled over so that her face was buried against the ground and her voice was muffled. “I don’t know.” “Is it sex? Are you having sex with someone? With that girl? Or with both of them?” “You don’t understand,” she said. “You don’t know what I feel.” She was wearing some kind of thin print skirt. He could see through it to her curved buttocks and brief knickers. Without knowing he was going to do it, he lifted the skirt and smacked her hard with the full weight of his hand across the back of her thighs; astonished, she scrambled to her knees and pounded at his shoulders and chest with her fists. For a few strange minutes they scuffled together viciously: at one point she tangled her fingers in his hair as tightly as she could and tugged hard at it; he slapped her again, on the face this time; she scratched his neck. A dog-walker emerged from the trees at the bottom of the field and looked up toward them, then retreated; he must have thought that they were making love, but in fact their fighting instinct for those minutes was pure and unsexual. As soon as David realized that Suzie was crying, he stopped in dismay. They got to their feet and brushed themselves off shamefacedly; she found a tissue in her bag for both of them to wipe their tears. On the way back to the car, Suzie wrapped her arms around herself, clutching her shoulders tightly; once or twice he touched her on the elbow to steer her onto the right path. Afterward, because they never talked about it, he found it hard to believe that this scene had actually taken place. It didn’t seem to make any difference to the way they lived together. In the summer, they spent a week at the house in west Wales with David’s parents. Suzie insisted that she wanted to swim, although the weather was cold and wet. David warned that if she was taking pills or any sort of hallucinogen this would be dangerous, and then he stood watching while she stripped, shivering, on the stony little beach in front of the house. It was late afternoon. The children were exploring among the rocks. A low, blurred, chilly sun was reflected in the rocking water, making a dim silver path from the horizon. Suzie had her black swimming costume on under her clothes; she stepped, long-legged, across the shingle, laughing and grimacing, balancing with her arms held out. “You’re making a mistake,” David said. “I really think you’re making a mistake.” Suzie stepped in, tottered at the shock of cold, forged on up to her knees, then with a shriek plunged and swam the crawl with strong strokes into the glittering path. She was a good swimmer, better than David. He and the children watched the shape of her head bobbing, disappearing and reappearing against the dazzle. He was wrapped in the sensation of her absence, the gulls crying and circling, the crash and drag of the waves, a cold wind slicing underneath his clothes. He worried that Suzie was going too far; the idea seized him that he would be left alone on the shore like this forever, holding the towels. Accidents really happened: it was idiotic to swim in this cold, in her state. He even took off his coat and went to the edge of the water, to go in after her. Then he caught sight of the bobbing dot of her head again: grateful, he saw it turn and head back toward the beach. After Francesca died, David had cleared out her flat. They hadn’t been living together when it happened; she’d moved out a few months before and got a place of her own from the council. The flat was on the sixth floor of a bleak tower block in Islington and he hadn’t liked her having Jamie there; they’d quarrelled over it. As he sorted out Francesca’s belongings, putting aside Jamie’s clothes and toys, it occurred to him that this woman who was the mother of his child was hardly known to him at all. He felt as if he were folding the skirts and dresses of a stranger: he found it so difficult to recognize anything in her cupboards or her drawers that he even wondered if she had replaced all her possessions since they’d split up, in some spasm of disgust at him. It was all in such a mess, anyway. He went through her makeup bag and the rubbish in the dusty bottom of her handbag, thinking that there might be something left behind that he recognized—just a hairgrip or a bead or a receipt from somewhere they’d been together. Francesca, in the days before she died, had seemed more stable than she had for months; she had been taking her medication. She was even supposed to go to a party that night—she had left Jamie with her mother. People reassured David that he mustn’t feel responsible for what had happened, but he never really felt responsible—he only felt angry with her. In all the time he spent clearing out that flat—it took him two days—he never once stepped out onto the balcony from which she’d jumped. It had been swelteringly hot, and he had dripped with sweat as he stuffed Francesca’s suitcases with things for the charity shops; he would have been more comfortable with a bit of air circulating inside, but he hadn’t even wanted to open the sliding doors. Afterward, he sometimes regretted this. He thought it might have been good for him to look down and see only the ordinary scruffy paving below. In September, Suzie’s headmistress rang to ask why Suzie hadn’t been in school for the first day of the new term. David didn’t know where she was. In the sitting room, the children had drawn the curtains against the daylight. The television capered weakly, and they hardly looked up as he peered in. Jamie was on his back on the sofa, Hannah sitting under his raised knees, Joel at his head, with an arm thrown carelessly across his big brother’s chest; like somnambulants, they gazed at the screen. David put some sausages to cook under the grill, opened tins of baked beans, cut his hand on the sharp edge of one of them, and leaked surprisingly thin wet blood onto the bread. He sat with the children in front of the telly to eat his heavy plateful, although he couldn’t remember later what he’d watched; he imagined the fatty food dissolving sourly in his stomach, sending spurts of acid into his esophagus, squeezing his heart. Then he piled up the dirty dishes in the kitchen, left the children with Jamie, and drove out to where he had dropped Suzie off in the spring, after that party; miraculously he remembered the way, didn’t make a single wrong turn, as if the little cottage in its close-nestled row behind overgrown gardens had lurked, waiting for him all that time, beneath his conscious thoughts. Shapes were silhouetted in the twilight against a clear sky; he could see that the wildness of the gardens, which he had remembered as dense with foliage, in fact consisted only of broken sofas, concrete, buddleia, a fallen wall, a garage sunk under the weight of its ivy. The fanlight above the front door through which Suzie had disappeared shone feebly yellow, as it had the last time. Children still played out in the streets around here: a gang circled on bikes, shouting to one another, two boys to a bike, the front one standing to pedal, the one behind with his legs splayed wide. David got out of the car and locked it behind him, scowling at the boys, then strode up the path, pushing through the bristling shrubs that blocked his way. There was no doorbell, only a taped-on note that said, absurdly, “Knock three times,” so he hammered with one fist, then both. When the door yielded and a man stood warily, holding it half open, David pushed forward across the threshold. “I have to speak to my wife. Suzie. Suzanne.” The man was slight and wiry, with tanned skin and a ponytail; he might have been a boy if it weren’t for the tight crinkles at the corners of his lips and eyes. He stood firmly in the doorway. “She’s not here.” “Suzie!” David bellowed past him. “Suzie!” A female shape moved into the shadows at the end of the hall. Too slight for Suzie—he made out the pale oval of Menna’s face. “You don’t have any right to come bursting in here,” she said. David had never been in a fight in his life; he knew that even though he was bigger he wouldn’t have a chance against this man, if it came to that. Everything about Menna’s boyfriend suggested the capable male, his strength held decently in reserve. David pushed past him clumsily nonetheless; the dingy narrow hall was just as he would have imagined it, down to its smell of dirty carpet overlaid with incense. “Neil,” Menna said. “Let him, if he wants to. We’ve got nothing to hide.” “You can take our word for it, mate,” Neil said, not offensively. “She isn’t here. We haven’t seen her for a few days.” David was immediately sure that they were telling the truth. Yet in a parade of angry expectation he had to storm about, searching, slamming open all the doors; he ran upstairs, blundered into the bathroom, switched on glaring central bulbs in two little bedrooms draped with patchwork, scarves, and beads. They didn’t even follow him: Menna made a sign to Neil. The house was surprisingly neat, in its junk-shop way. He looked for signs of whatever witchery it was that Suzie got up to in this house, but he couldn’t find anything sinister. There were piles of schoolbooks for marking, socks hanging on the radiators to dry, in the bathroom henna hair dye and a stained towel. Eventually, he came to rest in the kitchen, breathing heavily, propped with his knuckles resting on the little table where they had been eating when he came pounding at their door; their soup—lentil—was getting cold in green pottery bowls. He considered throwing the bowls wildly onto the floor, but didn’t do it. “Then where is she?” “If I did know I wouldn’t tell you,” Menna said. “But to simplify matters, as it happens I don’t. She must have been at school today—why don’t you ask them? We haven’t seen her for a week. She doesn’t live here, you know; she’s just a friend. We don’t insist on knowing her whereabouts.” “Then is there someone else?” “Someone else?” she mocked. “I don’t know what you mean-.” “She didn’t turn up at school today.” Menna shrugged. “We’re not her keepers. Obviously, you think that’s what you are.” “I’m the father of her children,” he said. “If she’s gone, I only want to know it.” “If she’s gone,” Menna said, “I’m not surprised. Not after this.” While David was inside the house, the evening light had blinked and gone; it was suddenly night. Blundering down the path, he ran right into someone turning in from the street; David let out an astonished, winded noise, although they hadn’t actually hurt each other. It was Jamie. David was so surprised at meeting him here that he almost didn’t recognize his own son; the closeness of Jamie’s face in the dim light confused him, those broad cheekbones, his eyes somehow masked in irony behind thick short eyelashes. He was supposed to be at home with Hannah and Joel. And how could he possibly know about this place? Jamie seemed just as surprised to see him. “Dad? Fuck.” “For Christ’s sake, can’t I even trust you to do one thing for me?” “What are you talking about?” “What have you done with the kids? I can’t believe you’ve left them at home on their own.” “Of course I haven’t done that. Suzie’s there.” “Oh. She is?” “She came back just after you left.” “So what are you doing here?” “Nothing.” “Do you know these people? Did you meet them through Suzie?” “Sort of.” Jamie stood obstinately, not moving either way on the path. “I’ve got the car. Do you want a lift anywhere?” “No.” In the end, it was David who had to move first. The boys were still circling on their bikes in the street. When he looked back at the house, he couldn’t see Jamie; he must have gone in through the front door, which David had left open behind him. On his way home there was traffic, people driving into town for the evening. Lit–up shop fronts swam in a blur of the rain that had begun to spatter in angry fistfuls across the windscreen. For minutes, David peered stupidly, forgetting that he could turn on his wipers. It took him half an hour to get through the thick crawl of cars, woven with crossing pedestrians, on the main roads; released at last into residential streets, he pressed his foot too hard on the accelerator, leaping forward. At the same moment, in a sudden squall, a white shape broke out in front of him from nowhere, or from between two parked cars. He stamped on his brake and swerved, and the car slewed, screeching sideways, but surely too late. He must have struck something: the blow seemed to resonate in the bodywork; his heart thumped out of his chest as if he’d been hit himself. He threw himself out of the car door to see what he had done, ready for the worst. He found nothing, only an empty street. Perhaps the sheet of sodden filthy newspaper under his wheels had been his phantom, inflated by the wind into a moment’s lifelikeness. He had been imagining things. He felt so sick that he had to pull in at the side of the road and rest his head against his arms on the steering wheel. For some time he couldn’t drive on. When at last he got home, the smell of sausages lingered, but the mess of supper had been cleared away. The children were sitting painting at the kitchen table. Their tranquillity seemed uncanny after the weather outside: their absorbed breathing, the stroke of their marks on big sheets of blue paper, the chink of their brushes in jam jars of clouding water. The tip of Hannah’s tongue stuck out in concentration; unnoticing, Joel sucked his brush, so that his lips were blue. Suzie must have put out the china dish piled with apples for them to paint; gazing at it, they seemed themselves as deliberate as a composition. “Is Mummy here?” They blinked at him, surfacing reluctantly. “Having a shower,” Joel said, frowning. He took the stairs two at a time. Suzie had begun to tidy up here, too; some of the piles that had waited on the landing to be sorted into different bedrooms had been put away. She was not showering: she had run herself a bath, perfumed with something; she was floating in it by candlelight, her body showing vaguely pink through the foamy water, her knees islands. Little candles on saucers were burning at intervals around the edges of the tub and on the windowsill. David put down the lid of the toilet seat and sat; Suzie hardly stirred the water, only turning her head to look at him. “Are you going to be cross about the candles?” “Cross?” “Aren’t they dangerous?” He sighed. “Am I really so dreary?” “I’m sure they are dangerous, but I’m being very careful. I just wanted to relax. I want to have a nice weekend at home, with you and the kids. Did you see that they were painting downstairs? David? Are you all right?” “I bumped into Jamie.” “He went out a while ago.” “I went to your friend’s house—Menna’s. I was looking for you. Then, as I came out, Jamie was going in. What was he doing there?” “You went to Menna’s?” she said, as if she were amused and curious. “What’s going on?” “It’s not a big deal,” she said. “Jamie was probably just buying weed. Neil sells to a few friends. What did you think he was doing?” “I don’t seem to be able to talk to him. I can’t get any sense out of him.” Suzie waited a few moments. “You know, he’s a nice boy,” she said. “He’s grown into a really nice boy. You’re too hard on him sometimes.” “I’m a bit out of my depth,” he said eventually. It was very difficult for him to make this confession. “David, you’re not all right, are you?” “I nearly crashed the car on the way home.” “How do you mean, you nearly crashed it?” “I thought someone ran out in front of the car. But there wasn’t anyone. I was imagining things.” Suzie stood up in the bath then, water sluicing off her thighs and her breasts; they were still pointed plump girl breasts, even after two children. She pulled a towel off the heated rail and stepped out; rubbing at her hair to dry it, she stood carelessly naked in front of him. “Don’t worry about it,” she said. “So long as nothing actually happened.” As she towelled her hair, with her arms lifted above her head, he could see the red-gold wiry fuzz in her armpits; he was distracted by the long oval swell of her abdomen and the knot of her navel, so close to his eyes. “But what about you?” he said. “What is it that’s been happening to us, these last few months?” “Oh, that,” she said lightly. “That’s all over.” “What’s all over?” “Whatever it was. My crazy fit. Whatever got inside me when I killed that swan.” “Crazy fit?” “Abducted-by-aliens kind of thing. I can’t explain it.” “Is that all you’re going to tell me?” Suzie drew a smiley face in the condensation on the washbasin mirror. “I know you always think I’m stupid.” “I don’t, Suzie. That’s not—” “But I had this dream last night, about ice cream. I was trying to buy it or something, some special kind with fruit in it. I couldn’t find it anywhere. D’you remember that I don’t really like ice cream, and we always wondered afterward why I was eating it that first day we met? So when I woke up I thought I ought to come home. I thought the dream was a sign. A good sign.” The hot steam in the bathroom was making David feel sick and weak. “And where were you sleeping, when you woke up out of this dream?” She bent down over him where he sat, wrapping the towel around both of them for a moment, printing her heated body wetly against his clothes. He closed his eyes. “You don’t need to know,” she said to him in the warm dark. “It doesn’t matter. It’ll be O.K. now, honestly.” 
A Tranquil Star Once upon a time, somewhere in the universe very far from here, lived a peaceful star, which moved peacefully in the immensity of the sky, surrounded by a crowd of peaceful planets about which we have not a thing to report. This star was very big and very hot, and its weight was enormous: and here a reporter’s difficulties begin. We have written “very far,” “big,” “hot,” “enormous”: Australia is very far, an elephant is big and a house is bigger, this morning I had a hot bath, Everest is enormous. It’s clear that something in our lexicon isn’t working. If this story must be written, we must have the courage to eliminate all adjectives that tend to excite wonder: they would achieve the opposite effect, of impoverishing the narrative. For a discussion of stars our language is inadequate and seems laughable, as if someone were trying to plow with a feather. It’s a language that was born with us, suitable for describing objects more or less as large and as long-lasting as we are; it has our dimensions, it’s human. It doesn’t go beyond what our senses tell us. Until two or three hundred years ago, small meant the scabies mite; there was nothing smaller, nor, as a result, was there an adjective to describe it. The sea and the sky were big, in fact equally big; fire was hot. Not until the thirteenth century was the need felt to introduce into daily language a term suitable for counting “very” numerous objects, and, with little imagination, “million” was coined. A while later, with even less imagination, “billion” was coined, with no care being taken to give it a precise meaning, since the term today has different values in different countries. Not even with superlatives does one get very far: how many times as high as a high tower is a very high tower? Nor can we hope for help from disguised superlatives, like “immense,” “colossal,” “extraordinary”: to relate the things that we want to relate here, these adjectives are hopelessly unsuitable, because the star we started from was ten times as big as our sun, and the sun is “many” times as big and heavy as our Earth, whose size so overwhelms our own dimensions that we can represent it only with a violent effort of the imagination. There is, of course, the slim and elegant language of numbers, the alphabet of the powers of ten, but then this would not be a story in the sense in which it wants to be a story; that is, a fable that awakens echoes, and in which each of us can perceive distant reflections of himself and of the human race. This tranquil star wasn’t supposed to be so tranquil. Maybe it was too big: in the far-off original act in which everything was created, it had received an inheritance too demanding. Or maybe it contained in its heart an imbalance or an infection, as happens to some of us. It’s customary among the stars to quietly burn the hydrogen they are made of, generously giving energy to the void, until they are reduced to a dignified thinness and end their career as modest white dwarfs. The star in question, however, when some billions of years had passed since its birth, and its companions began to rarefy, was not satisfied with its destiny and became restless—to such a point that its restlessness became visible even to those of us who are “very” distant and circumscribed by a “very” brief life. Of this restlessness Arab and Chinese astronomers were aware. The Europeans, no: the Europeans of that time, which was a time of struggle, were so convinced that the heaven of the stars was immutable, was in fact the paradigm and kingdom of immutability, that they considered it pointless and blasphemous to notice changes. There could be none—by definition there were none. But a diligent Arab observer, equipped only with good eyes, patience, humility, and the love of knowing the works of his God, had realized that this star, to which he was very attached, was not immutable. He had watched the star for thirty years, and had noticed that it oscillated between the fourth and the sixth of the six magnitudes that had been described many centuries earlier by a Greek, who was as diligent as he, and who, like him, thought that observing the stars was a route that would take one far. The Arab felt a little as if it were his star: he wanted to place his mark on it, and in his notes he called it al-Ludra, which in his dialect means “the capricious one.” Al-Ludra oscillated, but not regularly: not like a pendulum; rather, like someone who is at a loss between two choices. It completed its cycle sometimes in one year, sometimes in two, sometimes in five, and it didn’t always stop in its dimming at the sixth magnitude, which is the last visible to the naked eye: at times it disappeared completely. The patient Arab counted seven cycles before he died: his life had been long, but the life of a man is always pitifully brief compared with that of a star, even if the star behaves in such a way as to arouse suspicions about its eternity. After the death of the Arab, al-Ludra, although provided with a name, did not attract much interest, because the variable stars are so many, and also because, starting in 1750, it was reduced to a speck, barely visible with the best telescopes of the time. But in 1950 (and the message has only now reached us) the illness that must have been gnawing at it from within reached a crisis, and here, for the second time, our story, too, enters a crisis: now it is no longer the adjectives that fail but the facts themselves. We still don’t know much about the convulsive death-resurrection of stars: we know that, fairly often, something flares up in the atomic mechanism of a star’s nucleus and then the star explodes, on a scale not of millions or billions of years but of hours and minutes.We know that these events are among the most cataclysmic that the sky holds; but we understand only—and approximately—the how, not the why. We’ll be satisfied with the how. An observer who, to his misfortune, found himself on October 19th of 1950, at ten o’clock our time, on one of the silent planets of al-Ludra would have seen, “before his very eyes,” as they say, his gentle sun swell, not a little but “a lot,” and would not have been present at the spectacle for long. Within a quarter of an hour he would have been forced to seek useless shelter against the intolerable heat—and this we can affirm independently of any hypothesis concerning the size and shape of this observer, provided that he was constructed, like us, of molecules and atoms—and in half an hour his testimony, and that of all his fellow-beings, would end. Therefore, to conclude this account we must base it on other testimony, that of our earthly instruments, for which the event, in its intrinsic horror, happened in a “very” diluted form and, besides, was slowed down by the long journey through the realm of light that brought us the news. After an hour, the seas and ice (if there were any) of the no longer silent planet boiled up; after three, its rocks melted and its mountains crumbled into valleys in the form of lava. After ten hours, the entire planet was reduced to vapor, along with all the delicate and subtle works that the combined labor of chance and necessity, through innumerable trials and errors, had perhaps created there, and along with all the poets and wise men who had perhaps examined that sky, and had wondered what was the value of so many little lights, and had found no answer. That was the answer. After one of our days, the surface of the star had reached the orbit of its most distant planets, invading their sky and, together with the remains of its tranquillity, spreading in all directions—a billowing wave of energy bearing the modulated news of the catastrophe. Ramón Escojido was thirty-four and had two charming children. With his wife he had a complex and tense relationship: he was Peruvian and she was of Austrian origin, he solitary, modest, and lazy, she ambitious and eager for social life. But what social life can you dream of if you live in an observatory at an altitude of twenty-nine hundred metres, an hour’s flight from the nearest city and four kilometres from an Indian village, dusty in summer and icy in winter? Judith loved and hated her husband, on alternate days, sometimes even in the same instant. She hated his wisdom and his collection of shells; she loved the father of her children, and the man who was under the covers in the morning. They reached a fragile accord on weekend outings. It was Friday evening, and they were getting ready with noisy delight for the next day’s excursion. Judith and the children were busy with the provisions; Ramón went up to the observatory to prepare the photographic plate for the night. In the morning, he struggled to free himself from the children, who overwhelmed him with lighthearted questions: How far was the lake? Would it still be frozen? Had he remembered the rubber raft? He went into the darkroom to develop the plate; he dried it and placed it beside the plate that he had made seven days earlier. He examined both under the microscope: good, they were identical; he could leave in tranquillity. But then he had a scruple and looked more carefully, and realized that there was something new—not a big thing, a barely perceptible spot, but it wasn’t there on the old plate. When something like this shows up, ninety-nine times out of a hundred it’s a speck of dust (one can’t be too clean in the workplace) or a microscopic defect in the emulsion; but there is also the minuscule probability that it’s a nova, and one has to make a report, subject to confirmation. Farewell, outing: he would have to retake the photograph on the following two nights. What would he tell Judith and the children?
Good People They were up on a picnic table at that park by the lake, by the edge of the lake, with part of a downed tree in the shallows half hidden by the bank. Lane A. Dean, Jr., and his girlfriend, both in bluejeans and button-up shirts. They sat up on the table’s top portion and had their shoes on the bench part that people sat on to picnic or fellowship together in carefree times. They’d gone to different high schools but the same junior college, where they had met in campus ministries. It was springtime, and the park’s grass was very green and the air suffused with honeysuckle and lilacs both, which was almost too much. There were bees, and the angle of the sun made the water of the shallows look dark. There had been more storms that week, with some downed trees and the sound of chainsaws all up and down his parents’ street. Their postures on the picnic table were both the same forward kind with their shoulders rounded and elbows on their knees. In this position the girl rocked slightly and once put her face in her hands, but she was not crying. Lane was very still and immobile and looking past the bank at the downed tree in the shallows and its ball of exposed roots going all directions and the tree’s cloud of branches all half in the water. The only other individual nearby was a dozen spaced tables away, by himself, standing upright. Looking at the torn-up hole in the ground there where the tree had gone over. It was still early yet and all the shadows wheeling right and shortening. The girl wore a thin old checked cotton shirt with pearl-colored snaps with the long sleeves down and always smelled very good and clean, like someone you could trust and care about even if you weren’t in love. Lane Dean had liked the smell of her right away. His mother called her down to earth and liked her, thought she was good people, you could tell—she made this evident in little ways. The shallows lapped from different directions at the tree as if almost teething on it. Sometimes when alone and thinking or struggling to turn a matter over to Jesus Christ in prayer, he would find himself putting his fist in his palm and turning it slightly as if still playing and pounding his glove to stay sharp and alert in center. He did not do this now; it would be cruel and indecent to do this now. The older individual stood beside his picnic table—he was at it but not sitting—and looked also out of place in a suit coat or jacket and the kind of men’s hat Lane’s grandfather wore in photos as a young insurance man. He appeared to be looking across the lake. If he moved, Lane didn’t see it. He looked more like a picture than a man. There were not any ducks in view. One thing Lane Dean did was reassure her again that he’d go with her and be there with her. It was one of the few safe or decent things he could really say. The second time he said it again now she shook her head and laughed in an unhappy way that was more just air out her nose. Her real laugh was different. Where he’d be was the waiting room, she said. That he’d be thinking about her and feeling bad for her, she knew, but he couldn’t be in there with her. This was so obviously true that he felt like a ninny that he’d kept on about it and now knew what she had thought every time he went and said it—it hadn’t brought her comfort or eased the burden at all. The worse he felt, the stiller he sat. The whole thing felt balanced on a knife or wire; if he moved to put his arm up or touch her the whole thing could tip over. He hated himself for sitting so frozen. He could almost visualize himself tiptoeing past something explosive. A big stupid-looking tiptoe, like in a cartoon. The whole last black week had been this way and it was wrong. He knew it was wrong, knew something was required of him that was not this terrible frozen care and caution, but he pretended to himself he did not know what it was that was required. He pretended it had no name. He pretended that not saying aloud what he knew to be right and true was for her sake, was for the sake of her needs and feelings. He also worked dock and routing at UPS, on top of school, but had traded to get the day off after they’d decided together. Two days before, he had awakened very early and tried to pray but could not. He was freezing more and more solid, he felt like, but he had not thought of his father or the blank frozenness of his father, even in church, which had once filled him with such pity. This was the truth. Lane Dean, Jr., felt sun on one arm as he pictured in his mind an image of himself on a train, waving mechanically to something that got smaller and smaller as the train pulled away. His father and his mother’s father had the same birthday, a Cancer. Sheri’s hair was colored an almost corn blond, very clean, the skin through her central part pink in the sunlight. They’d sat here long enough that only their right side was shaded now. He could look at her head, but not at her. Different parts of him felt unconnected to each other. She was smarter than him and they both knew it. It wasn’t just school—Lane Dean was in accounting and business and did all right; he was hanging in there. She was a year older, twenty, but it was also more—she had always seemed to Lane to be on good terms with her life in a way that age could not account for. His mother had put it that she knew what it is she wanted, which was nursing and not an easy program at Peoria Junior College, and plus she worked hostessing at the Embers and had bought her own car. She was serious in a way Lane liked. She had a cousin that died when she was thirteen, fourteen, that she’d loved and been close with. She only talked about it that once. He liked her smell and her downy arms and the way she exclaimed when something made her laugh. He had liked just being with her and talking to her. She was serious in her faith and values in a way that Lane had liked and now, sitting here with her on the table, found himself afraid of. This was an awful thing. He was starting to believe that he might not be serious in his faith. He might be somewhat of a hypocrite, like the Assyrians in Isaiah, which would be a far graver sin than the appointment—he had decided he believed this. He was desperate to be good people, to still be able to feel he was good. He rarely before now had thought of damnation and Hell—that part of it didn’t speak to his spirit—and in worship services he more just tuned himself out and tolerated Hell when it came up, the same way you tolerate the job you’ve got to have to save up for what it is you want. Her tennis shoes had little things doodled on them from sitting in her class lectures. She stayed looking down like that. Little notes or reading assignments in Bic in her neat round hand on the rubber elements around the sneaker’s rim. Lane A. Dean, looking now at her inclined head’s side’s barrettes in the shape of blue ladybugs. The appointment was for afternoon, but when the doorbell had rung so early and his mother’d called to him up the stairs, he had known, and a terrible kind of blankness had commenced falling through him. He told her that he did not know what to do. That he knew if he was the salesman of it and forced it upon her that was awful and wrong. But he was trying to understand—they’d prayed on it and talked it through from every different angle. Lane said how sorry she knew he was, and that if he was wrong in believing they’d truly decided together when they decided to make the appointment she should please tell him, because he thought he knew how she must have felt as it got closer and closer and how she must be so scared, but that what he couldn’t tell was if it was more than that. He was totally still except for moving his mouth, it felt like. She did not reply. That if they needed to pray on it more and talk it through, then he was here, he was ready, he said. The appointment could get moved back; if she just said the word they could call and push it back to take more time to be sure in the decision. It was still so early in it—they both knew that, he said. This was true, that he felt this way, and yet he also knew he was also trying to say things that would get her to open up and say enough back that he could see her and read her heart and know what to say to get her to go through with it. He knew this without admitting to himself that this was what he wanted, for it would make him a hypocrite and liar. He knew, in some locked-up little part of him, why it was that he’d gone to no one to open up and seek their life counsel, not Pastor Steve or the prayer partners at campus ministries, not his UPS friends or the spiritual counselling available through his parents’ old church. But he did not know why Sheri herself had not gone to Pastor Steve—he could not read her heart. She was blank and hidden. He so fervently wished it never happened. He felt like he knew now why it was a true sin and not just a leftover rule from past society. He felt like he had been brought low by it and humbled and now did believe that the rules were there for a reason. That the rules were concerned with him personally, as an individual. He promised God he had learned his lesson. But what if that, too, was a hollow promise, from a hypocrite who repented only after, who promised submission but really only wanted a reprieve? He might not even know his own heart or be able to read and know himself. He kept thinking also of 1 Timothy and the hypocrite therein who disputeth over words. He felt a terrible inner resistance but could not feel what it was that it resisted. This was the truth. All the different angles and ways they had come at the decision together did not ever include it—the word—for had he once said it, avowed that he did love her, loved Sheri Fisher, then it all would have been transformed. It would not be a different stance or angle, but a difference in the very thing they were praying and deciding on together. Sometimes they had prayed together over the phone, in a kind of half code in case anybody accidentally picked up the extension. She continued to sit as if thinking, in the pose of thinking, like that one statue. They were right up next to each other on the table. He was looking over past her at the tree in the water. But he could not say he did: it was not true. But neither did he ever open up and tell her straight out he did not love her. This might be his lie by omission. This might be the frozen resistance—were he to look right at her and tell her he didn’t, she would keep the appointment and go. He knew this. Something in him, though, some terrible weakness or lack of values, could not tell her. It felt like a muscle he did not have. He didn’t know why; he just could not do it, or even pray to do it. She believed he was good, serious in his values. Part of him seemed willing to more or less just about lie to someone with that kind of faith and trust, and what did that make him? How could such a type of individual even pray? What it really felt like was a taste of the reality of what might be meant by Hell. Lane Dean had never believed in Hell as a lake of fire or a loving God consigning folks to a burning lake of fire—he knew in his heart this was not true. What he believed in was a living God of compassion and love and the possibility of a personal relationship with Jesus Christ through whom this love was enacted in human time. But sitting here beside this girl as unknown to him now as outer space, waiting for whatever she might say to unfreeze him, now he felt like he could see the edge or outline of what a real vision of Hell might be. It was of two great and terrible armies within himself, opposed and facing each other, silent. There would be battle but no victor. Or never a battle—the armies would stay like that, motionless, looking across at each other, and seeing therein something so different and alien from themselves that they could not understand, could not hear each other’s speech as even words or read anything from what their face looked like, frozen like that, opposed and uncomprehending, for all human time. Two-hearted, a hypocrite to yourself either way. When he moved his head, a part of the lake further out flashed with sun—the water up close wasn’t black now, and you could see into the shallows and see that all the water was moving but gently, this way and that—and in this same way he besought to return to himself as Sheri moved her leg and started to turn beside him. He could see the man in the suit and gray hat standing motionless now at the lake’s rim, holding something under one arm and looking across at the opposite side where a row of little forms on camp chairs sat in a way that meant they had lines in the water for crappie—which mostly only your blacks from the East Side ever did—and the little white shape at the row’s end a Styrofoam creel. In his moment or time at the lake now just to come, Lane Dean first felt he could take this all in whole: everything seemed distinctly lit, for the circle of the pin oak’s shade had rotated off all the way, and they sat now in sun with their shadow a two-headed thing in the grass before them. He was looking or gazing again at where the downed tree’s branches seemed to all bend so sharply just under the shallows’ surface when he was given to know that through all this frozen silence he’d despised he had, in truth, been praying, or some little part of his heart he could not hear had, for he was answered now with a type of vision, what he would later call within his own mind a vision or moment of grace. He was not a hypocrite, just broken and split off like all men. Later on, he believed that what happened was he’d had a moment of almost seeing them both as Jesus saw them—as blind but groping, wanting to please God despite their inborn fallen nature. For in that same given moment he saw, quick as light, into Sheri’s heart, and was made to know what would occur here as she finished turning to him and the man in the hat watched the fishing and the downed elm shed cells into the water. This down-to-earth girl that smelled good and wanted to be a nurse would take and hold one of his hands in both of hers to unfreeze him and make him look at her, and she would say that she cannot do it. That she is sorry she did not know this sooner, that she hadn’t meant to lie—she agreed because she’d wanted to believe that she could, but she cannot. That she will carry this and have it; she has to. With her gaze clear and steady. That all night last night she prayed and searched inside herself and decided this is what love commands of her. That Lane should please please sweetie let her finish. That listen—this is her own decision and obliges him to nothing. That she knows he does not love her, not that way, has known it all this time, and that it’s all right. That it is as it is and it’s all right. She will carry this, and have it, and love it and make no claim on Lane except his good wishes and respecting what she has to do. That she releases him, all claim, and hopes he finishes up at P.J.C. and does so good in his life and has all joy and good things. Her voice will be clear and steady, and she will be lying, for Lane has been given to read her heart. To see through her. One of the opposite side’s blacks raises his arm in what may be greeting, or waving off a bee. There is a mower cutting grass someplace off behind them. It will be a terrible, last-ditch gamble born out of the desperation in Sheri Fisher’s soul, the knowledge that she can neither do this thing today nor carry a child alone and shame her family. Her values blocked the way either way, Lane could see, and she has no other options or choice—this lie is not a sin. Galatians 4:16, Have I then become your enemy? She is gambling that he is good. There on the table, neither frozen nor yet moving, Lane Dean, Jr., sees all this, and is moved with pity, and also with something more, something without any name he knows, that is given to him in the form of a question that never once in all the long week’s thinking and division had even so much as occurred—why is he so sure he doesn’t love her? Why is one kind of love any different? What if he has no earthly idea what love is? What would even Jesus do? For it was just now he felt her two small strong soft hands on his, to turn him. What if he was just afraid, if the truth was no more than this, and if what to pray for was not even love but simple courage, to meet both her eyes as she says it and trust his heart?♦
Cell One The first time our house was robbed, it was our neighbor Osita who climbed in through the dining-room window and stole our TV and VCR, and the “Purple Rain” and “Thriller” videotapes that my father had brought back from America. The second time our house was robbed, it was my brother Nnamabia, who faked a break-in and stole my mother’s jewelry. It happened on a Sunday. My parents had travelled to their home town to visit our grandparents, so Nnamabia and I went to church alone. He drove my mother’s green Peugeot 504. We sat together in church as we usually did, but we did not have time to nudge each other and stifle giggles about somebody’s ugly hat or threadbare caftan, because Nnamabia left without a word after ten minutes. He came back just before the priest said, “The Mass is ended, go in peace.” I was a little piqued. I imagined that he had gone off to smoke or to see some girl, since he had the car to himself for once; but he could at least have told me. We drove home in silence, and when he parked in our long driveway I stayed back to pick some ixora flowers while Nnamabia unlocked the front door. I went inside to find him standing in the middle of the parlor. “We’ve been robbed!” he said. It took me a moment to take in the room. Even then, I felt that there was a theatrical quality to the way the drawers had been flung open. Or perhaps it was simply that I knew my brother too well. Later, when my parents had come home and neighbors began to troop in to say ndo—sorry—and to snap their fingers and heave their shoulders up and down, I sat alone in my room upstairs and realized what the queasiness in my gut was: Nnamabia had done it, I knew. My father knew, too. He pointed out that the window louvres had been slipped out from the inside, rather than from the outside (Nnamabia was usually smarter than that—perhaps he had been in a hurry to get back to church before Mass ended), and that the robber knew exactly where my mother’s jewelry was: in the back left corner of her metal trunk. Nnamabia stared at my father with wounded eyes and said that he may have done horrible things in the past, things that had caused my parents pain, but that he had done nothing in this case. He walked out the back door and did not come home that night. Or the next night. Or the night after. Two weeks later, he came home gaunt, smelling of beer, crying, saying he was sorry, that he had pawned the jewelry to the Hausa traders in Enugu, and that all the money was gone. “How much did they give you for my gold?” our mother asked him. And when he told her she placed both hands on her head and cried, “Oh! Oh! Chi m egbuo m! My God has killed me!” I wanted to slap her. My father asked Nnamabia to write a report: how he had pawned the jewelry, what he had spent the money on, with whom he had spent it. I didn’t think that Nnamabia would tell the truth, and I don’t think that my father thought he would, but he liked reports, my professor father, he liked to have things written down and nicely documented. Besides, Nnamabia was seventeen, with a carefully tended beard. He was already between secondary school and university, and was too old for caning. What else could my father have done? After Nnamabia had written the report, my father filed it in the steel cabinet in his study where he kept our school papers. “That he could hurt his mother like that!” was the last thing my father said on the subject. But Nnamabia hadn’t set out to hurt her. He had done it because my mother’s jewelry was the only thing of any value in the house: a lifetime’s accumulation of solid-gold pieces. He had done it, too, because other sons of professors were doing it. This was the season of thefts on our serene campus. Boys who had grown up watching “Sesame Street,” reading Enid Blyton, eating cornflakes for breakfast, and attending the university staff primary school in polished brown sandals were now cutting through the mosquito netting of their neighbors’ windows, sliding out glass louvres, and climbing in to steal TVs and VCRs. We knew the thieves. Still, when the professors saw one another at the staff club or at church or at a faculty meeting, they were careful to moan about the riffraff from town coming onto their sacred campus to steal. The thieving boys were the popular ones. They drove their parents’ cars in the evening, their seats pushed back and their arms stretched out to reach the steering wheel. Osita, our neighbor who had stolen our TV only weeks before Nnamabia’s theft, was lithe and handsome in a brooding sort of way, and walked with the grace of a cat. His shirts were always crisply ironed, and I used to watch him across the hedge, then close my eyes and imagine that he was walking toward me, coming to claim me as his. He never noticed me. When he stole from us, my parents did not go over to Professor Ebube’s house to ask for our things back. But they knew it was Osita. Osita was two years older than Nnamabia; most of the thieving boys were a little older than Nnamabia, and maybe that was why Nnamabia had not stolen from another person’s house. Perhaps he did not feel old enough, qualified enough, for anything more serious than my mother’s jewelry. Nnamabia looked just like my mother—he had her fair complexion and large eyes, and a generous mouth that curved perfectly. When my mother took us to the market, traders would call out, “Hey! Madam, why did you waste your fair skin on a boy and leave the girl so dark? What is a boy doing with all this beauty?” And my mother would chuckle, as though she took a mischievous and joyful responsibility for Nnamabia’s looks. When, at eleven, Nnamabia broke the window of his classroom with a stone, my mother gave him the money to replace it and didn’t tell my father. When, a few years later, he took the key to my father’s car and pressed it into a bar of soap that my father found before Nnamabia could take it to a locksmith, she made vague sounds about how he was just experimenting and it didn’t mean anything. When he stole the exam questions from the study and sold them to my father’s students, she yelled at him, but then told my father that Nnamabia was sixteen, after all, and really should be given more pocket money. I don’t know whether Nnamabia felt remorse for stealing her jewelry. I could not always tell from my brother’s gracious, smiling face what he really felt. He and I did not talk about it, and neither did my parents. Even though my mother’s sisters sent her their gold earrings, even though she bought a new gold chain from Mrs. Mozie—the glamorous woman who imported gold from Italy—and began to drive to Mrs. Mozie’s house once a month to pay in installments, we never talked about what had happened to her jewelry. It was as if by pretending that Nnamabia had not done the things he had done we could give him the opportunity to start afresh. The robbery might never have been mentioned again if Nnamabia had not been arrested two years later, in his second year of university. By then, it was the season of cults on the Nsukka campus, when signs all over the university read in bold letters, “SAY NO TO CULTS.” The Black Axe, the Buccaneers, and the Pirates were the best known. They had once been benign fraternities, but they had evolved, and now eighteen-year-olds who had mastered the swagger of American rap videos were undergoing secret initiations that sometimes left one or two of them dead on Odim Hill. Guns and tortured loyalties became common. A boy would leer at a girl who turned out to be the girlfriend of the Capone of the Black Axe, and that boy, as he walked to a kiosk later to buy a cigarette, would be stabbed in the thigh. He would turn out to be a Buccaneer, and so one of his fellow-Buccaneers would go to a beer parlor and shoot the nearest Black Axe in the leg, and then the next day another Buccaneer would be shot dead in the refectory, his body falling onto aluminum plates of garri, and that evening a Black Axe—a professor’s son—would be hacked to death in his room, his CD player splattered with blood. It was inane. It was so abnormal that it quickly became normal. Girls stayed in their rooms after classes, and lecturers quivered, and when a fly buzzed too loudly people jumped. So the police were called in. They sped across campus in their rickety blue Peugeot 505 and glowered at the students, their rusty guns poking out of the car windows. Nnamabia came home from his lectures laughing. He thought that the police would have to do better than that; everyone knew the cult boys had newer guns. My parents watched Nnamabia with silent concern, and I knew that they, too, were wondering if he was in a cult. Cult boys were popular, and Nnamabia was very popular. Boys yelled out his nickname—“The Funk!”—and shook his hand whenever he passed by, and girls, especially the popular ones, hugged him for too long when they said hello. He went to all the parties, the tame ones on campus and the wilder ones in town, and he was the kind of ladies’ man who was also a guy’s guy, the kind who smoked a packet of Rothmans a day and was reputed to be able to finish a case of Star beer in a single sitting. But it seemed more his style to befriend all the cult boys and yet not be one himself. And I was not entirely sure, either, that my brother had whatever it took—guts or diffidence—to join a cult. The only time I asked him if he was in a cult, he looked at me with surprise, as if I should have known better than to ask, before replying, “Of course not.” I believed him. My dad believed him, too, when he asked. But our believing him made little difference, because he had already been arrested for belonging to a cult. This is how it happened. On a humid Monday, four cult members waited at the campus gate and waylaid a professor driving a red Mercedes. They pressed a gun to her head, shoved her out of the car, and drove it to the Faculty of Engineering, where they shot three boys who were coming out of the building. It was noon. I was in a class nearby, and when we heard the shots our lecturer was the first to run out the door. There was loud screaming, and suddenly the stairwells were packed with scrambling students unsure where to run. Outside, the bodies lay on the lawn. The Mercedes had already screeched away. Many students hastily packed their bags, and okada drivers charged twice the usual fare to take them to the motor park to get on a bus. The vice-chancellor announced that all evening classes would be cancelled and everyone had to stay indoors after 9 P.M. This did not make much sense to me, since the shooting had happened in sparkling daylight, and perhaps it did not make sense to Nnamabia, either, because the first night of the curfew he didn’t come home. I assumed that he had spent the night at a friend’s; he did not always come home anyway. But the next morning a security man came to tell my parents that Nnamabia had been arrested at a bar with some cult boys and was at the police station. My mother screamed, “Ekwuzikwana! Don’t say that!” My father calmly thanked the security man. We drove to the police station in town, and there a constable chewing on the tip of a dirty pen said, “You mean those cult boys arrested last night? They have been taken to Enugu. Very serious case! We must stop this cult business once and for all!” We got back into the car, and a new fear gripped us all. Nsukka, which was made up of our slow, insular campus and the slower, more insular town, was manageable; my father knew the police superintendent. But Enugu was anonymous. There the police could do what they were famous for doing when under pressure to produce results: kill people. The Enugu police station was in a sprawling, sandy compound. My mother bribed the policemen at the desk with money, and with jollof rice and meat, and they allowed Nnamabia to come out of his cell and sit on a bench under a mango tree with us. Nobody asked why he had stayed out the night before. Nobody said that the police were wrong to walk into a bar and arrest all the boys drinking there, including the barman. Instead, we listened to Nnamabia talk. “If we ran Nigeria like this cell,” he said, “we would have no problems. Things are so organized. Our cell has a chief and he has a second-in-command, and when you come in you are expected to give them some money. If you don’t, you’re in trouble.” “And did you have any money?” my mother asked. Nnamabia smiled, his face more beautiful than ever, despite the new pimple-like insect bite on his forehead, and said that he had slipped his money into his anus shortly after the arrest. He knew the policemen would take it if he didn’t hide it, and he knew that he would need it to buy his peace in the cell. My parents said nothing for a while. I imagined Nnamabia rolling hundred-naira notes into a thin cigarette shape and then reaching into the back of his trousers to slip them into himself. Later, as we drove back to Nsukka, my father said, “This is what I should have done when he stole your jewelry. I should have had him locked up in a cell.” My mother stared out the window. “Why?” I asked. “Because this has shaken him. Couldn’t you see?” my father asked with a smile. I couldn’t see it. Nnamabia had seemed fine to me, slipping his money into his anus and all. “Well, in the wedding of my boyhood dreams there was an open bar.”Buy the print » Nnamabia’s first shock was seeing a Buccaneer sobbing. The boy was tall and tough, rumored to have carried out one of the killings and likely to become Capone next semester, and yet there he was in the cell, cowering and sobbing after the chief gave him a light slap on the back of the head. Nnamabia told me this in a voice lined with both disgust and disappointment; it was as if he had suddenly been made to see that the Incredible Hulk was really just painted green. His second shock was learning about the cell farthest away from his, Cell One. He had never seen it, but every day two policemen carried a dead man out of Cell One, stopping by Nnamabia’s cell to make sure that the corpse was seen by all. Those in the cell who could afford to buy old plastic paint cans of water bathed every other morning. When they were let out into the yard, the policemen watched them and often shouted, “Stop that or you are going to Cell One now!” Nnamabia could not imagine a place worse than his cell, which was so crowded that he often stood pressed against the wall. The wall had cracks where tiny kwalikwata lived; their bites were fierce and sharp, and when he yelped his cellmates mocked him. The biting was worse during the night, when they all slept on their sides, head to foot, to make room for one another, except the chief, who slept with his whole back lavishly on the floor. It was also the chief who divided up the two plates of rice that were pushed into the cell every day. Each person got two mouthfuls. Nnamabia told us this during the first week. As he spoke, I wondered if the bugs in the wall had bitten his face or if the bumps spreading across his forehead were due to an infection. Some of them were tipped with cream-colored pus. Once in a while, he scratched at them. I wanted him to stop talking. He seemed to enjoy his new role as the sufferer of indignities, and he did not understand how lucky he was that the policemen allowed him to come out and eat our food, or how stupid he’d been to stay out drinking that night, and how uncertain his chances were of being released. We visited him every day for the first week. We took my father’s old Volvo, because my mother’s Peugeot was unsafe for trips outside Nsukka. By the end of the week, I noticed that my parents were acting differently—subtly so, but differently. My father no longer gave a monologue, as soon as we were waved through the police checkpoints, on how illiterate and corrupt the police were. He did not bring up the day when they had delayed us for an hour because he’d refused to bribe them, or how they had stopped a bus in which my beautiful cousin Ogechi was travelling and singled her out and called her a whore because she had two cell phones, and asked her for so much money that she had knelt on the ground in the rain begging them to let her go. My mother did not mumble that the policemen were symptoms of a larger malaise. Instead, my parents remained silent. It was as if by refusing to criticize the police they would somehow make Nnamabia’s freedom more likely. “Delicate” was the word the superintendent at Nsukka had used. To get Nnamabia out anytime soon would be delicate, especially with the police commissioner in Enugu giving gloating, preening interviews about the arrest of the cultists. The cult problem was serious. Big Men in Abuja were following events. Everybody wanted to seem as if he were doing something. The second week, I told my parents that we were not going to visit Nnamabia. We did not know how long this would last, and petrol was too expensive for us to drive three hours every day. Besides, it would not hurt Nnamabia to fend for himself for one day. My mother said that nobody was begging me to come—I could sit there and do nothing while my innocent brother suffered. She started walking toward the car, and I ran after her. When I got outside, I was not sure what to do, so I picked up a stone near the ixora bush and hurled it at the windshield of the Volvo. I heard the brittle sound and saw the tiny lines spreading like rays on the glass before I turned and dashed upstairs and locked myself in my room. I heard my mother shouting. I heard my father’s voice. Finally, there was silence. Nobody went to see Nnamabia that day. It surprised me, this little victory. We visited him the next day. We said nothing about the windshield, although the cracks had spread out like ripples on a frozen stream. The policeman at the desk, the pleasant dark-skinned one, asked why we had not come the day before—he had missed my mother’s jollof rice. I expected Nnamabia to ask, too, even to be upset, but he looked oddly sober. He did not eat all of his rice. “What is wrong?” my mother said, and Nnamabia began to speak almost immediately, as if he had been waiting to be asked. An old man had been pushed into his cell the day before—a man perhaps in his mid-seventies, white-haired, skin finely wrinkled, with an old-fashioned dignity about him. His son was wanted for armed robbery, and when the police had not been able to find his son they had decided to lock up the father. “The man did nothing,” Nnamabia said. “But you did nothing, either,” my mother said. Nnamabia shook his head as if our mother did not understand. The following days, he was more subdued. He spoke less, and mostly about the old man: how he could not afford bathing water, how the others made fun of him or accused him of hiding his son, how the chief ignored him, how he looked frightened and so terribly small. “Does he know where his son is?” my mother asked. “He has not seen his son in four months,” Nnamabia said. “Of course it is wrong,” my mother said. “But this is what the police do all the time. If they do not find the person they are looking for, they lock up his relative.” “The man is ill,” Nnamabia said. “His hands shake, even when he’s asleep.” He closed the container of rice and turned to my father. “I want to give him some of this, but if I bring it into the cell the chief will take it.” My father went over and asked the policeman at the desk if we could be allowed to see the old man in Nnamabia’s cell for a few minutes. The policeman was the light-skinned acerbic one who never said thank you when my mother handed over the rice-and-money bribe, and now he sneered in my father’s face and said that he could well lose his job for letting even Nnamabia out and yet now we were asking for another person? Did we think this was visiting day at a boarding school? My father came back and sat down with a sigh, and Nnamabia silently scratched at his bumpy face. The next day, Nnamabia barely touched his rice. He said that the policemen had splashed soapy water on the floor and walls of the cell, as they usually did, and that the old man, who had not bathed in a week, had yanked his shirt off and rubbed his frail back against the wet floor. The policemen started to laugh when they saw him do this, and then they asked him to take all his clothes off and parade in the corridor outside the cell; as he did, they laughed louder and asked whether his son the thief knew that Papa’s buttocks were so shrivelled. Nnamabia was staring at his yellow-orange rice as he spoke, and when he looked up his eyes were filled with tears, my worldly brother, and I felt a tenderness for him that I would not have been able to describe if I had been asked to. There was another attack on campus—a boy hacked another boy with an axe—two days later. “This is good,” my mother said. “Now they cannot say that they have arrested all the cult boys.” We did not go to Enugu that day; instead my parents went to see the local police superintendent, and they came back with good news. Nnamabia and the barman were to be released immediately. One of the cult boys, under questioning, had insisted that Nnamabia was not a member. The next day, we left earlier than usual, without jollof rice. My mother was always nervous when we drove, saying to my father, “Nekwa ya! Watch out!,” as if he could not see the cars making dangerous turns in the other lane, but this time she did it so often that my father pulled over before we got to Ninth Mile and snapped, “Just who is driving this car?” Two policemen were flogging a man with koboko as we drove into the police station. At first, I thought it was Nnamabia, and then I thought it was the old man from his cell. It was neither. I knew the boy on the ground, who was writhing and shouting with each lash. He was called Aboy and had the grave ugly face of a hound; he drove a Lexus around campus and was said to be a Buccaneer. I tried not to look at him as we walked inside. The policeman on duty, the one with tribal marks on his cheeks who always said “God bless you” when he took his bribe, looked away when he saw us, and I knew that something was wrong. My parents gave him the note from the superintendent. The policeman did not even glance at it. He knew about the release order, he told my father; the barman had already been released, but there was a complication with the boy. My mother began to shout, “What do you mean? Where is my son?” The policeman got up. “I will call my senior to explain to you.” My mother rushed at him and pulled on his shirt. “Where is my son? Where is my son?” My father pried her away, and the policeman brushed at his chest, as if she had left some dirt there, before he turned to walk away. “Where is our son?” my father asked in a voice so quiet, so steely, that the policeman stopped. “They took him away, sir,” he said. “They took him away? What are you saying?” my mother was yelling. “Have you killed my son? Have you killed my son?” “Where is our son?” my father asked again. “My senior said I should call him when you came,” the policeman said, and this time he hurried through a door. It was after he left that I felt suddenly chilled by fear; I wanted to run after him and, like my mother, pull at his shirt until he produced Nnamabia. The senior policeman came out, and I searched his blank face for clues. “Good day, sir,” he said to my father. “Where is our son?” my father asked. My mother breathed noisily. “No problem, sir. It is just that we transferred him. I will take you there right away.” There was something nervous about the policeman; his face remained blank, but he did not meet my father’s eyes. “Transferred him?” “We got the order this morning. I would have sent somebody for him, but we don’t have petrol, so I was waiting for you to come so that we could go together.” “Why was he transferred?” “I was not here, sir. They said that he misbehaved yesterday and they took him to Cell One, and then yesterday evening there was a transfer of all the people in Cell One to another site.” “He misbehaved? What do you mean?” “I was not here, sir.” My mother spoke in a broken voice: “Take me to my son! Take me to my son right now!” I sat in the back with the policeman, who smelled of the kind of old camphor that seemed to last forever in my mother’s trunk. No one spoke except for the policeman when he gave my father directions. We arrived about fifteen minutes later, my father driving inordinately fast. The small, walled compound looked neglected, with patches of overgrown grass strewn with old bottles and plastic bags. The policeman hardly waited for my father to stop the car before he opened the door and hurried out, and again I felt chilled. We were in a godforsaken part of town, and there was no sign that said “Police Station.” There was a strange deserted feeling in the air. But the policeman soon emerged with Nnamabia. There he was, my handsome brother, walking toward us, seemingly unchanged, until he came close enough for my mother to hug him, and I saw him wince and back away—his arm was covered in soft-looking welts. There was dried blood around his nose. “Why did they beat you like this?” my mother asked him. She turned to the policeman. “Why did you people do this to my son? Why?” The man shrugged. There was a new insolence to his demeanor; it was as if he had been uncertain about Nnamabia’s well-being but now, reassured, could let himself talk. “You cannot raise your children properly—all of you people who feel important because you work at the university—and when your children misbehave you think they should not be punished. You are lucky they released him.” My father said, “Let’s go.” He opened the door and Nnamabia climbed in, and we drove home. My father did not stop at any of the police checkpoints on the road, and, once, a policeman gestured threateningly with his gun as we sped past. The only time my mother opened her mouth on the drive home was to ask Nnamabia if he wanted us to stop and buy some okpa. Nnamabia said no. We had arrived in Nsukka before he finally spoke. “Yesterday, the policemen asked the old man if he wanted a free half bucket of water. He said yes. So they told him to take his clothes off and parade the corridor. Most of my cellmates were laughing. Some of them said it was wrong to treat an old man like that.” Nnamabia paused. “I shouted at the policeman. I told him the old man was innocent and ill, and if they kept him here it wouldn’t help them find his son, because the man did not even know where his son was. They said that I should shut up immediately, that they would take me to Cell One. I didn’t care. I didn’t shut up. So they pulled me out and slapped me and took me to Cell One.” Nnamabia stopped there, and we asked him nothing else. Instead, I imagined him calling the policeman a stupid idiot, a spineless coward, a sadist, a bastard, and I imagined the shock of the policemen—the chief staring openmouthed, the other cellmates stunned at the audacity of the boy from the university. And I imagined the old man himself looking on with surprised pride and quietly refusing to undress. Nnamabia did not say what had happened to him in Cell One, or what happened at the new site. It would have been so easy for him, my charming brother, to make a sleek drama of his story, but he did not. 
BRAVADO The leaves had begun to fall. All along Sunderland Avenue on the pavement beneath the beech trees there was a sprinkling, not yet the mushy inconvenience they would become when more fell and rain came, which inevitably would be soon. Not many people were about; it was after midnight, almost one o’clock, the widely spaced lampposts casting pools of misty, yellow illumination. A man walked his dog in Blenning Road in the same blotchy lamplight, the first of autumn’s leaves gathering there also. An upstairs window opened in Verdun Crescent, hands clapped to dismiss a cat rooting in a flower bed. A car turned into Sunderland Avenue, its headlights dimmed and then extinguished, its alarm set for the night with a flurry of flashing orange and red. The traffic of the city was a hum that only faintly reached these leisurely streets, the occasional distant shriek of a police siren or an ambulance more urgently disturbing their peace. Less than half a mile away, the night was different. Young people prowled about outside the Star night club, its band—Big City—taking a break. A late shop was still open, a watchful Indian at the door noting who came and went. A few cars drew away, but more remained. Then, with a thump of such suddenness that for a moment it might have been taken for a warning of emergency or disaster, music again burst from the Star night club. By half past one this neighborhood, too, had quietened. The bouncers at the Star drove off, couples made their way to the dark seclusion of the nearby canal bank. Others stood about, groups forming and dispersing. Locking up his shop, the Indian was argued with, and abused, when demands for alcohol and potato crisps were refused. The last of the parked cars were driven off. Two youths who were friends went together, undaunted by the prospect of an hour’s walk to where they lived. One was in shirtsleeves although it was chilly, the arms of a red anorak tied around his shoulders; the other wore a black woollen jersey above ragged jeans. They talked about the girls they had come across on the dance floor, one in particular, well known to them both, the others strangers. They talked about their intentions for the future: in the Merchant Navy and in car sales, an uncle’s business. These were the changes that were soon to come about, when education ended, when so much they had known for so long was to be left behind forever: the Brothers and the lay teachers, the cramped desks scratched with entwined initials and hearts and arrows, all they had learned of self-preservation and of survival’s cunning. There was, in their conversation, an absence of regret. They paused in their walk while the anorak was unknotted and put on and zipped. Their evening out had been a good one, they agreed while this was being done. “Kicking,” one said. “Big City can do it.” They walked on, talking about that band’s touch of genius. With his mobile telephone close to his mouth, the Indian loudly demanded the police: his usual ploy at this hour, speaking to no one. His tormentors swore at him, then tired of their invective and went away. Five there were, two of them girls, neither of whom had taken part in the abuse, which had surprised him, for girls were often the worst. He kept an eye on the five when they moved off in a bunch, causing an oncoming car to slow to a crawl as they crossed the street. Then he locked his shop, thankful that there hadn’t been an incident. “How ya doin’?” Manning shouted at the driver of the car. He drummed on the bonnet with his fists and, joining in, his companions—but not the girls—did the same. The car kept moving, then stopped and reversed. It went another way. “Could you beat that?” Manning laughed, watching the car from the middle of the road. He was tallest of the bunch, his reddish hair falling over his forehead in a floppy shock that he was said to be proud of. An air of insouciance distinguished his manner, was there again in the lazy saunter of his walk, in his smile. Manning led when he was with Donovan and Kilroy, which he was most of the time, and was tonight. Aisling was his girl, fair-haired and pretty, with expressive blue eyes, younger than Manning by more than a year. The second girl wasn’t known to the others; earlier she had asked which way they were going and then if she could go with them, because she lived in that direction. Francie she was called. Aisling clung to Manning as they walked. With his arm round Francie, Kilroy tried to slow her down, in the hope of setting up an opportunity for something when they had fallen far enough behind. But Francie kept up a steady pace. She was small, often called a little thing, but deliberate and determined in her manner. She, too, was pretty, but less dramatically so than Aisling, whom Manning liked to describe as drop-dead gorgeous. She denied that she was, but Manning’s regular repetition of the compliment did not displease her. She listened to him now, saying he didn’t intend to set foot in the Star again, objecting to the way the shaven-headed bouncers had frisked him for miniatures. They had taken one from him and afterward said they hadn’t: they thought they owned you, louts like that. “Did you ever do a line, cowboy?” he called across Aisling to Donovan. “Amn’t I doing a line with Josie Flynn?” “You eejit!” Laughing again, Manning sounded drunk, Aisling thought. Not very, but a little. She’d been drunk once or twice herself but hadn’t liked it, everything slipping about, and the way you felt in the morning. “Did you ever, though?” Manning pressed, offering Donovan a cigarette. Donovan said he had of course, many a time, and Aisling knew all this was for her and for the girl who’d tagged along, whose name she had forgotten. “Awesome,” Donovan said, he and Manning lighting their cigarettes, sharing the match. No one else was a smoker. They were going by the dye works now, where Manning had once climbed over the high spiked railings. That had been for Aisling, too, and a girl called Maura Bannerman. The security lights had been triggered and through the railings they had watched Manning roaming about, from time to time peering in at the downstairs windows of the lumpy red brick building that was said to have been a lunatic asylum once. Behind her Aisling heard Kilroy telling the girl he had monopolized about that night. At the top of the railings, razor wire was woven through the spikes, he said, adding to the hazards: none of them knew how Manning had done it, especially since he was a bit drunk then, too. Kilroy had slit eyes that aptly suggested an untrustworthy nature. Donovan was considered to be dense. Almost as tall as Manning, he was bulkier, clumsy in his movements, slow of speech. Kilroy had a stunted appearance, accentuated by oiled black hair sleekly brushed straight back, making the top of his head seem flat. Aisling didn’t much like either of them. The first time she’d been in the Star—the first time she’d seen Manning, no more than a face in the crowd—she had admired him. He’d noticed her interest, he told her afterward, he said she was his kind, and she didn’t hesitate when he asked her to go out with him. Mano he was called, in the Dublin manner. Martin was what his family called him and Aisling thought of him as that when she was in her convent classroom, and every night before she went to sleep. She and he were an item, he said, which Aisling had never been with anyone before. “I’d give a thousand bucks for a snort,” he was saying now, his voice slightly raised, a laugh in it again. “Where’d we get ourselves a snort, cowboy?” Donovan said maybe Dirty Doyle’s, Kilroy suggested Capel Street. It was a kind of play, Aisling knew; Martin Manning doing the big fellow, her father would have said. She had become used to it ages ago. They reached the quiet streets, St. Stephen’s Church at the corner of Goodchild Street, the shadowy sprawl of trees on either side of Sunderland Avenue ahead of them. “Who’re those geeks?” Donovan suddenly exclaimed, and they all stopped, not knowing at first where to look. When he pointed they saw the red anorak. “It’s bloody Dalgety,” Manning said. The two parted in Sunderland Avenue, Dalgety turning into Blenning Road. On his own, he went a little faster, but paused when he noticed that one of the garden gates he was passing was invitingly open. He went through it and crossed a lawn to a corner near the house where he couldn’t be seen from the windows. He urinated in the shadow of an eleagnus bush. Making their way from the night club, they had once or twice been aware of voices behind them but, engrossed in conversation themselves, hadn’t looked round to see whose they were. Dalgety couldn’t hear the voices now and imagined that whoever they belonged to had gone in some other direction. A light hadn’t come on in the house, which sometimes happened when you found a garden that was convenient for the purpose he had used it for. He unzipped his anorak because he’d noticed that the teeth of the zip hadn’t been properly aligned. While he was zipping it up again he was struck, a blow on the right side of his head. He thought that someone had come out of the house, and was thinking he hadn’t heard the front door opening when the next blow came. He stumbled and fell, and a foot smashed into his jaw when he was lying on the grass. He tried to stand up but couldn’t. Aisling watched from the road. Francie looked away. In the garden, standing back at first, not taking part, Donovan moved forward when the boy was lying on the grass. Kilroy stayed with the girl. Nobody spoke while the assault was taking place, not in the garden, not on the road. Aisling wondered what the boy had done, what insults had been exchanged in the Star or before that, how he had offended. Something of the headiness of the night club seemed to be there again, something of the music’s energy, of the wildness that was often in a face as it went by on the dance floor before it was sucked into the suffocating closeness of the crowd. Still nobody spoke when they all moved on, in a bunch again. “Oh, leave me be!” Francie suddenly cried out. “Just leave me, would you!” She pulled herself away from Kilroy’s grasp, fiercely taking exception to the attentions she had allowed before. “Lay off of me, will you.” “Behave yourself, cowboy.” Manning’s rebuke came lightly, and for a moment as he spoke Aisling saw the white gleam of his teeth. He knew how best to intercede. He was good at that. She’d often noticed how in an instant he became serious when seriousness was called for. And she’d noticed how he didn’t hesitate to do what he felt should be done. There would be a reason for what had happened. Kilroy muttered. He desisted for a few minutes before he tried again, and again was crossly rejected. In Charleston Road Francie scuttled off, not saying good night. “Hoity!” Kilroy remarked. Aisling didn’t think so. The girl who’d asked if she might walk with them had been upset, taken by surprise when so suddenly the incident occurred. Knowing too little about the strangers she’d fallen in with, she hadn’t been able to make allowances, or sense that there would be a reason. Being pawed about by Kilroy might even have seemed too like the violence in the garden—you couldn’t blame her if she’d felt frightened. Aisling would have herself. “Dalgety’s a pain,” Manning said when she asked why Dalgety had been duffed up. “Forget it,” he said. “I never heard that name before,” Aisling said. “Dalgety.” “Yeah, a nerd’s.” Conversation lapsed then, but as they passed the entrance to the Greenbanks Hotel Donovan began on a story about his sister, how she was going to a shrink and hated it so much she often didn’t turn up for her weekly sessions. “A guy comes on heavy,” Donovan said. “You end up with a shrink.” Nobody commented; Donovan did not go on. The interrupted silence held for a little longer and the talk, when it began again, was different. So that was it, Aisling reflected, not saying anything herself. She felt relieved, aware of a relaxation in her body, as if her nerves had been strung up and no longer were. This Dalgety had upset Donovan’s sister, going too far when she didn’t want him to, his persistence putting her in need of psychiatric care. And the anger Aisling had witnessed in the garden touched her, what had happened seeming different, less than it had been while she watched. “See you, Mano,” Donovan said. “Cheers, Aisling.” She said good night. Donovan turned into Cambridge Road, and soon afterward Kilroy turned off, too. “Was he all right?” Aisling asked then. “Who’s this?” “Dalgety.” “Christ, of course he was.” They went to Spire View Lane, where they always went when it was as late as this. “You’re a dazzler tonight,” Manning whispered, slipping his hands beneath her clothes. She closed her eyes, kissing him back, his early-morning stubble harsh on her chin. The first time she had experienced that roughness it had excited her, and every time since it had. “I’d best be getting back,” she said, not that she wanted to get back anywhere. A dog came sniffing at them, some kind of small breed, black or gray, you couldn’t tell in the dark. Someone whistled for it and it ran off. “I’ll walk you over,” Manning said, which he always did when she had to go. He lit a cigarette, as he always did, too. The smoke would get into her clothes and she’d be asked about it if there was anyone up, although usually nobody was. “I looked back,” Manning said. “He was up on his feet.” “Bernadette rang,” a note for her in the kitchen said, “and Sister Teresa about knowing your part for Thursday.” No one was still up or there wouldn’t be the note. Aisling made cocoa and had biscuits with it, sitting at the table with the Evening Herald, then pushing it away. She wished it hadn’t happened, but thought about Hazel Donovan and before she finished her cocoa wondered if she really wished it. She might have slipped him but she hadn’t, and she remembered now not wanting to. “The hard man,” his friends said when they greeted him, knowing him well, as she did, too, his daring, the way he took chances. “Aw, come on,” he had urged, the time he gave her a lift on the bar of his bicycle, when they were caught by her father coming toward them on a bicycle, too, his veterinary bag hanging on the handlebars. “Don’t ever let me see the like of that again,” her father stormed at her when she returned to the house. Being his favorite made being caught all the worse, her mother explained. Neither of them approved of Martin Manning. They didn’t understand. She washed the mug she’d drunk her cocoa from at the sink and put the lid on the biscuit tin. She picked up Sister Teresa’s typed sheets and went upstairs. “Scenes from Hamlet” was Sister Teresa’s title for the monologues she had put together, the first time she had attempted something that wasn’t a conventional play. “ ‘There’s fennel for you,’ ” Aisling murmured, half asleep already, “ ‘and columbines . . .’ ” At No. 6 Blenning Road, the elderly woman who had lived alone there since she was widowed seven months earlier was roused from a dream in which she was a child again. She went to the top of her stairs, leaned over the bannister, and shouted in the direction of the hall door, asking who was there. But all that happened was the ringing of the doorbell again. It would take more than that, she told herself, to get her to open her door at this hour. When the bell ceased there was a banging and a rapping, and a voice coming from far away because she hadn’t had time to put her hearing aid in. Even when the letter box rattled and the voice was louder she still couldn’t hear a word of what was said. She went back to her bedroom for her hearing aid and then trudged down to the hall. “What d’you want?” she shouted at the letter box. Fingers appeared, pressing the flap open. “Excuse me, missus. Excuse me, but there’s someone lying down in your garden.” “It’s half past six in the morning.” “Could you phone up the guards, missus?” In the hall she shook her head, not answering that. She asked whereabouts in her garden the person was. “Just lying there on the grass. I’d call them up myself only my mobile’s run out.” She telephoned. No point in not, she thought. She was glad to be leaving this house, which for so long had been too big for two and was now ridiculously big for one. She had been glad before this, but now was more certain than ever that she had made the right decision. She thought so again while she watched from her dining-room window a garda car arriving, and an ambulance soon after that. She opened her hall door then, and saw a body taken away. A man came to speak to her, saying it was he who had talked to her through the letter box. A guard told her the person they had found lying near her eleagnus was dead. On the news the address was not revealed. A front garden, it was reported, and gave the district. A milkman going by on his way to the depot had noticed. No more than that. When Aisling came down at five past eight they were talking about it in the kitchen. She knew at once. “You all right?” her mother asked, and she said she was. She went back to her bedroom, saying she had forgotten something. It was all there on the front page of the Evening Herald ’s early-afternoon edition. No charges had been laid, but it was expected that they would be later in the day. The deceased had not been known to the householder in whose garden the body had been discovered, who was reported as saying she had not been roused by anything unusual in the night. The identity of the deceased had not yet been established, but a few details were given, little more than that a boy of about sixteen had met his death following an assault. Witnesses were asked to come forward. Aisling didn’t; the girl who had tagged along did. The victim’s companion on the walk from the Star night club gave the time they left it and the approximate time of their parting from one another. The night-club bouncers were helpful but could add little to what was already known. The girl who had come forward was detained for several hours at the Garda station from which inquiries were being made. She was complimented on the clarity of her evidence and pressed to recall the names of the four people she had been with. But she had never known those names, only that the red-haired boy was called Mano and had himself addressed his two companions as “cowboy.” Arrests were made just before midnight. Aisling read all that the next morning in the Irish Independent, which was the newspaper that came to the house. Later in the day she read an almost identical account in the Irish Times, which she bought in a newsagent’s where she wasn’t known. Both reports referred to her, describing her as “the second girl,” whom the Gardaí were keen to locate. There was a photograph, a coat thrown over the head and shoulders of a figure being led away, a wrist handcuffed to that of a uniformed garda. The second arrest, at a house in Ranelagh, told no more. No names were released at first. When they were, Aisling made a statement to the police, confessing that she was the second girl, and in doing so she became part of what had happened. People didn’t attempt to talk to her about it, and at the convent it was forbidden that they should do so; but it was sometimes difficult, even for strangers, to constrain the curiosity that too often was evident in their features. When more time passed, there was the trial, and then the verdict. Acquitted of murder, the two who had been apprehended were sent to jail for eleven years, their previous good conduct taken into account, together with the consideration, undenied by the court, that there was an accidental element in what had befallen them: neither had known of their victim’s frail, imperfect heart. Aisling’s father did not repeat his castigation of her for making a friendship he had never liked: what had happened was too terrible for petty blame. Beneath an intolerant surface, he could draw on gentleness. “We have to live with this,” he said, as if accepting that the violence of the incident reached out for him, too, that guilt was indiscriminately scattered. For Aisling, time passing was stranger than she had ever known days and nights to be before. Nothing was unaffected. In conveying the poetry of Shakespeare on the hastily assembled convent stage she perfectly knew her lines, and the audience was kind. But there was pity in that applause, because she had unfairly suffered in the aftermath of the tragedy she had witnessed. She knew there was, and in the depths of her consciousness it felt like mockery and she did not know why. A letter came, long afterward, flamboyant handwriting bringing back the excitement of surreptitious notes in the past. No claim was made on her, nor were there protestations of devotion, as once, so often, there had been. He would go away. He would bother no one. He was a different person now. A priest was being helpful. The letter was long enough for contrition, but still was short. Missing from its single page was what had been missing, also, during the trial: that the victim had been a nuisance to Donovan’s sister. In the newspaper photograph—the same one many times—Dalgety was dark-haired, smiling only slightly, his features regular, almost nondescript except for a mole on his chin. And, seeing it so often, Aisling had each time imagined his unwanted advances pressed on Hazel Donovan, and had read the innocence in those features as a lie. It was extraordinary that this, as the reason for the assault, had not been brought forward in the court; and more extraordinary that it wasn’t touched upon in a letter where, with remorse and regret, it surely belonged. “A guy comes on heavy,” Donovan, that night, had said. There had been a lingering silence and he broke it to mention this trouble in his family, as if he thought that someone should say something. The conversational tone of his voice seemed to indicate he would go on, but he didn’t. Hungry for mercy, she too eagerly wove into his clumsy effort at distraction an identity he had not supplied, allowing it to be the truth, until time wore the deception out. After the convent, Aisling acquired a qualification that led to a post in the general office of educational publishers. She had come to like being alone and often in the evenings went on her own to the cinema, and at weekends walked at Howth or by the sea at Dalkey. One afternoon she visited the grave, then went back often. A stone had been put there, its freshly incised words brief: the name, the dates. People came and went among the graves but did not come to this one, although flowers were left from time to time. In a bleak cemetery Aisling begged forgiveness of the dead for the falsity she had embraced when what there was had been too ugly to accept. Silent, she had watched an act committed to impress her, to deserve her love, as other acts had been. And watching, there was pleasure. If only for a moment, but still there had been. She might go away herself and often thought she would: in the calm of another time and place to flee the shadows of bravado. Instead, she stayed, a different person, too, belonging where the thing had happened. 
Bear Meat Evenings spent in a mountain hut are among the most sublime and intense that life holds. I mean a real hut, the kind where you seek shelter after a four-, five-, or six-hour climb and where you find few so-called comforts. Not that chairlifts and cable cars and such comforts are to be looked down on: they are, on the contrary, logical achievements of our society, which is what it is, and must be either accepted or rejected in its totality—and those who are able to reject it are few. But the advent of the chairlift puts an end to a valuable process of natural selection, by which those who reach the hut are sure to find, in its pure state, a small sample of a little-known human subspecies. Its members are people who don’t speak much and of whom others don’t speak at all, so there is no mention of them in the literature of most countries, and they should not be confused with other, vaguely similar types, who do speak, and of whom others speak: hot shots, extreme climbers, members of famous international expeditions, professionals, etc. All worthy people, but this story is not about them. I arrived at the hut at sunset, and I was very tired. I stayed outside, on the wooden porch, to consider the frozen mystery of the seracs at my feet until everything had vanished behind silent ghosts of fog, and then I went in. Inside it was almost dark. By the glow of a small carbide lamp one could distinguish a dozen human figures gathered around three or four tables. I sat down at a table and opened my backpack. Across from me was a tall, large man, middle-aged, with whom I exchanged a few words about the weather and our plans for the following day. This is a standard conversation, like the classic opening moves of a chess game, where what matters, much more than what one says (which is brief and obvious), is the tone in which one says it. We found ourselves in agreement on the fact that the weather was uncertain (it always is in the mountains; when it isn’t, it is nonetheless declared to be so, for obvious magical reasons), and on the forecast for the following day. A little later, two lanky men in their twenties entered, with long beards and ravenous eyes. They had arrived from another valley and were attempting an intricate series of crossings. They sat down at our table. After we had eaten, we started to drink. Wine is a more complex substance than one might think, and, above two thousand metres, and at close to zero degrees centigrade, it displays interesting behavioral anomalies. It changes flavor, loses the bite of alcohol, and regains the mildness of the grape from which it comes. One can take it in heavy doses without any undesired effects. In fact, it eliminates fatigue, loosens and warms the limbs, and leads to a fanciful mood. It is no longer a luxury or a vice but a metabolic necessity, like water on the plains. It is a well-known fact that vines grow better on a slope: could there be a connection? Once we started drinking, the conversation at our table became much less impersonal. Each of us spoke of our initiation, and we established with some surprise that we had all begun our mountaineering careers with an extremely foolish act. As it turned out, the best of these foolish acts, and the best told, was the one recounted by the tall, large man. “I was fifteen. A friend of mine, Saverio, was also fifteen. Another, Luigi, was seventeen. We had gone out a number of times together, to fifteen hundred, two thousand metres, without a plan or a destination; I should say, without a conscious destination, but, in essence, impelled by a subtle desire to get ourselves in trouble and then get ourselves out of it. Nothing easier: it’s enough to go straight up the mountain following your instincts, in any direction, by the steepest slope, struggle for a quarter of an hour across the mountainside, and then try to get back down. Of course, one also learns a few things in this process: that pine trees, when they’re available, make safe and friendly supports, especially during the descent, and that scree is hard to climb but easy to descend by. One learns different types of grasses, those peculiar terraced slopes, and the art of losing the trail and finding it again. Above all, one learns the limits, both quantitative and qualitative, of one’s own strength: when the breath, the legs, and the heart give out, and when, so to speak, it’s psychosomatic. It’s a great school—I wish I had attended it longer. “September came and we felt like lions. Luigi said, ‘The G. Pass is twenty-four hundred metres high—eleven hundred vertical metres from here. According to the guidebooks, it should be a three-hour climb, but it’ll take us barely two. There’s nothing difficult, just scree and small rocks—no snow this time of year. On the other side, there’s a six-hundred-metre descent, one hour, and we arrive at the border-patrol hut; you can see it clearly here on the map. Then an easy return along the road. We’ll leave at two today; at four we’re at the top, at five at the hut, and home in time for dinner.’ “That was Luigi. We met at his house at two, with our good boots on our feet, but no backpacks, no rope (about whose use none of us had any real notion anyway; but we knew—having studied the Alpine Club guidebook—the theory of the double rope, the respective merits of hemp and manila, the technique for rescuing someone from a crevasse, and other fine points), a hundred grams of chocolate in our pockets, and (may God forgive us!) wearing shorts. “We progressed well uphill. First, through a pine forest, spurning the mule trail and the shortcuts, and sampling the blueberries; then through an alluvial cone, wasting precious energy. It was the first time we had set off without grownups getting on our nerves with all their advice, without uncles, without experts. We were drunk on our freedom, and because of this, we delighted in the dirtiest high-school slang, accompanying it with lofty quotations from the classics, for example: “It is another path that you must take . . . if you would leave this savage wilderness”; Or: That was no path for those with cloaks of lead, for he and I—he, light; I, with support— could hardly make it up from spur to spur. And also: . . . he’d see another spur, saying: “That is the one you will grip next, but try it first to see if it is firm.” “Forgive me if I get a little carried away. You see, I’m not a Dante expert, and yet, believe me, one of these days an honest man will come along and prove that Dante couldn’t have just invented these founding principles of rock climbing—he must have been here or in a similar place. And when he says: Remember, reader, if you’ve ever been caught in the mountains by a mist through which you only saw as moles see through their skin— I congratulate him! I, for one, never doubted that he was a professional. “At any rate, we were climbing at a brisk pace, saying and doing foolish things. And so it happened that we reached the pass at six, not at four, near collapse, and with a certain trembling in our knees that wasn’t just from exhaustion. Saverio was the worst off. Luigi and I were already at the top and saw him struggling among the loose rocks fifty metres below us. ‘ “Now you must cast aside your laziness!” ’ Luigi had the gall to shout to him. At which the poor boy paused to catch his breath, looked upward like Christ on the Cross, then clambered up to us and breathed out, in a faint voice, the implausible yet utterly correct reply: ‘ “Go on, for I am strong and confident.” ’ “When all three of us were at the pass, two unhappy truths became clear. One, that night was falling; and I swear on this bottle that I have never since then (and many years have passed) seen darkness fall in the mountains without feeling an emptiness here in the pit of my stomach. The other truth was that we were trapped. “From the pass, there was no logical descent to the hut. There was a gentle, rocky valley, with no human trace, and beyond it a terrifying precipice, not vertical, no, but of broken rock and gullies of crumbling earth—one of those places no one ever wants to go because you’ll break your neck without glory or satisfaction. “With the last light, we pushed on all the way to the edge: you could see the big dark leap of the valley and, if you stuck your nose out, even the light in the hut, almost beneath you. But as for getting down there on our own, we couldn’t even consider it; we sat there and started shouting. We took turns. Saverio shouted and prayed. Luigi shouted and cursed. I just shouted. We shouted until we were hoarse. “Toward midnight, the light in the hut split into two lights, and one of the two blinked three times. It was a signal: we shouted three times in response. At that, a faraway voice called, ‘We’re coming,’ and we replied with a cacophony of shouts. The voice asked, ‘Where are you?,’ and we three, without a single match to strike, blurted out confused and irrelevant information, all at the same time. “Our rescuers, poor devils, cursed as they climbed, and stopped now and then to sing, drink, and laugh loudly. They weren’t very enthusiastic. Many years later, I also happened to be part of a rescue party, so I know exactly how they felt. These expeditions are tedious and dangerous affairs, and in most cases they can only lead to trouble, because no one wants to pay for the emergency supplies—least of all the rescued, who are rarely solvent. “They reached us at around two in the morning; and here I must tell you that, on top of everything else, they were members of the border patrol. Once they’d found us, a signal was sent to the valley with a flashlight. ‘Who are they?’ a voice asked from below. ‘It’s just three whiny gagno’ was the fierce reply, in dialect. Then, turning to us, ‘Is this what they teach you in school?’ “After that, they tied us up like salami and lowered us down to the valley without talking to us but stopping often to drink, and curse, and guffaw among themselves. Pass me the bottle, please.” I passed the narrator the bottle and asked him what a gagno was. “Gagno,” he said, “means child, but it’s a word loaded with mockery. Second-grade kids say it to first graders. “That’s how I started. It’s not a story to be proud of, you might say. And I’m not. But I’m sure that even this foolish adventure was useful to me later. These are things that make your back broad, which isn’t something Nature gives everyone. I read somewhere—and the person who wrote this was not a mountaineer but a sailor—that the sea’s only gifts are harsh blows and, occasionally, the chance to feel strong. Now, I don’t know much about the sea, but I do know that that’s the way it is here. And I also know how important it is in life not necessarily to be strong but to feel strong, to measure yourself at least once, to find yourself at least once in the most ancient of human conditions, facing blind, deaf stone alone, with nothing to help you but your own hands and your own head. . . . But, excuse me, that’s another story. The one I told you ends like this. They called me ‘whiny gagno’ for years. Some people still do and, I assure you, I don’t mind at all.” He drank, and silently busied himself with the complex rituals of a pipe smoker. “I, too, started with an extremely foolish act,” a voice interjected at this point, and then we noticed that there were no longer four of us but five at the table. The voice had come from a man who, in the dim light, appeared to be thin, balding at the temples, with a sharp face furrowed by shifting wrinkles. He told his story at an uneven pace, swallowing his words and leaving sentences incomplete, as if his tongue had difficulty following the thread of his thoughts; at other times he struggled to find the words and would stop as if under a spell. “There were three of us, too, but not so young—in our twenties. One was Antonio, and I wouldn’t want to say much about him, nor would I know how to. He was a fine, handsome youth, smart, sensitive, tenacious, and bold, but with something in him that was elusive, dark, wild. We were at that age when you have the need and the instinct and the immodesty to inflict on others everything that is seething in your head and elsewhere; it’s an age that can last a long time, but ends at the first compromise. Yet with him, even at that age, nothing had slipped out of his wrapping of restraint; nothing escaped from his inner world—though we sensed it to be rich and dense—except some rare allusion dramatically cut short. He was like a cat, if I may put it this way, whom you live with for years but who never allows you to get under his sacred skin. “The third was Carlo, our leader. He is dead; it’s best to say it right away, because one can’t help speaking in a different way of the dead than of the living. He died in a way that suited him—not in the mountains, but the way one dies in the mountains. Doing what he had to do: not the kind of duty imposed by someone else, or by the state, but the kind that one chooses for oneself. He would have put it differently, called it ‘reaching the end of the line,’ for example, because he didn’t like big words, or, for that matter, words. “He was the kind of boy who doesn’t study for seven months, who is known as a rebel and a dunce, and then in the eighth month absorbs all the courses as if they were water and comes through with straight A’s. He spent the summer as a shepherd—not a shepherd of souls, no, a shepherd of sheep, and not to show off or to be eccentric but happily, for love of the earth and the grass. And in the winter, whenever he got restless, he would tie his skis to his bicycle and ‘go up’ alone, with no money, only an artichoke in one pocket and the other full of salad. He would come back in the evening or maybe the following day, having slept who knows where, and the more storms and hunger he had endured the happier and healthier he was. When I met him, he already had a considerable mountaineering career behind him, while I was still a novice. But he was reluctant to talk about it: he wasn’t the type—which I respect, because I’m like that, too—who goes into the mountains to be able to tell a story. On the other hand, it was as if no one had taught him how to speak, just as no one had taught him how to ski: because he spoke the way nobody speaks, he voiced only the essence of things. “He seemed to be made of steel. If necessary, he could carry a backpack that weighed thirty kilos as if it were nothing, but usually he travelled without a pack: his pockets were enough. Besides the vegetables, they held a piece of bread, a pocketknife, sometimes the Alpine Club guidebook, and always a spool of wire for emergency repairs. He could walk for two days without eating, or eat three meals in one sitting and then be off. Once, I saw him at three thousand metres in February, in the sleet, bare-chested, eating calmly, a spectacle so upsetting to two men nearby that it turned their stomachs. I have a picture at home of the whole scene.” He paused, as if to catch his breath. People from the other tables had gone to bed: in the sudden silence we distinctly heard the deep roar of a serac, like the bones of a giant trying in vain to turn over in his bed of rock. “I beg your pardon. I’m no longer young, and I know that it’s a desperate endeavor to clothe a man in words. This one in particular. A man like this, when he’s dead, is dead forever. He’s not the kind you tell stories about or build monuments to; he’s all in his actions, and, once those are over, nothing remains—nothing but, precisely, words. So every time I try to talk about him, to bring him back to life, as I’m doing now, I feel a great sadness, an emptiness, as if I were on a cliff, and I have to be silent, or else drink.” He was silent, and drank, and then continued. “So one Saturday morning in February Carlo came to us. ‘Tomorrow, eh?’ he said. In his language, what he meant was that, since the weather was good, we could leave the next day for the winter ascent of the Tooth of M., which we had been planning for a while. “I won’t give you all the technical details. I’ll tell you, briefly, that we left the following morning, not too early (Carlo didn’t like watches—he felt their tacit, continuous warning as an arbitrary intrusion); that we plunged boldly into the fog; that we came out the other side at around one in the afternoon, the sun was shining, and we were on the ridge of the wrong mountain. “Antonio said that we could go down a hundred metres or so, cross along the mountainside, and climb back up the next mountain. I, who was the most cautious and the least able, said that, while we were at it, we could just as well continue along the ridge and arrive at a different peak—it was only forty metres lower than the other one anyway—and be satisfied with that. Carlo, in perfect bad faith, said with a few harsh, cackling syllables that my proposal was fine but, then again, ‘by the easy northwest ridge’ we could reach the Tooth of M. in half an hour; and that it wasn’t worth being twenty-one if you didn’t allow yourself the luxury of taking the wrong path. “ ‘The easy northwest ridge’ was described rock by rock in the battered guidebook that Carlo carried in his pocket, along with the wire I mentioned. He took this guidebook along not because he believed in it but for the exact opposite reason. He rejected it because he perceived it, too, as a constraint, and not just any constraint but a bastard creature, a detestable hybrid of snow and rock and paper. He took it with him into the mountains to scorn it, delighted if he could catch it in error, even if that error was to his own detriment and that of his climbing companions. “The easy northwest ridge was truly easy, in fact elementary, in the summer, but the conditions we found that day were difficult. The rocks were wet on the side that faced the sun and glazed with ice in the shade; between one rock spike and the next were pockets of wet snow where we sank up to our shoulders. We arrived at the right peak at five, two of us dragging ourselves pitifully, while Carlo was seized by a sinister hilarity that I found slightly irritating. “ ‘How will we get down?’ “ ‘We’ll figure it out,’ Carlo said, and added mysteriously, ‘The worst thing that happens is we taste bear meat.’ “Well, we tasted it, bear meat, in abundance, during the course of that night, the longest of my climbing career. It took us two hours to descend, feebly assisted by the rope. I’m sure you know what an infernal instrument a frozen rope is: ours had become a stiff, evil tangle that got caught on all the outcrops and clanged against the rock like a steel cable. At seven, we reached the shore of a small frozen lake. It was dark. “We ate the little we had left, built a useless wall of stones to shelter us from the wind, and lay down on the ground to sleep, huddled side by side. We took turns—the man in the middle slept while the others acted as a buffer. For some reason I can’t explain, our watches had stopped—perhaps because we had forgotten to wind them—and without watches we felt as if time, too, had frozen. We stood up now and then to get our circulation going, and it was always the same: the wind was always blowing, there was always a semblance of moon, always in the same spot in the sky, and in front of the moon a fantastic cavalcade of ragged clouds, always the same. We had taken off our shoes, and put our feet in our backpacks. At the first ghostly light, which seemed to radiate not from the sky but from the snow, we got up, our limbs numb and our eyes glazed from sleeplessness, hunger, and darkness, and found our shoes so frozen that, when struck, they rang like bells. In order to put them on we had to sit on them for half an hour, as if we were hatching eggs. “But we returned to the valley on our own: and when the innkeeper asked us, chuckling, how it had gone, all the while stealing glances at our two-day stubble, we answered without hesitation that it had been a great outing, paid the bill, and left without losing our composure. “That was bear meat. Now, you must believe me, gentlemen, many years have passed, and I regret having eaten so little of it. I think and hope that each of you has gleaned from life what I have—a certain measure of ease, respect, love, and success. Well, I’ll tell you the truth, none of these things, not even remotely, has the taste of bear meat: the taste of being strong and free, which means free to make mistakes; the taste of feeling young in the mountains, of being your own master, which means master of the world. “And, trust me, I am grateful to Carlo for having deliberately got us into trouble, for the night he made us spend, and for the various enterprises, senseless only on the surface, that he involved us in later on, and then for various others, not in the mountains, which I got into on my own, by following his doctrine. He was a young man full of earthly vigor who had a wisdom of his own, and may the earth in which he rests, not far from here, lie light on his bones, and bring the news, each year, of the return of the sun and of the frost.” The second narrator fell silent, and he seemed to me to be looking with some embarrassment toward the two young men, as if afraid that he had disturbed or offended them; then he filled his glass but did not drink. His last words had roused in me a rare echo, as if I had heard them somewhere before. And, in fact, I later found almost those exact words in a book that is now dear to me, by the same sailor, cited by the first man, who had written of the gifts of the sea.
The Bible He was twenty, she eighteen. He approached her one evening at the Café du Relais Saint-Michel. He told her that he had just come from his sociology class. For her part, she waited several days to tell him that she was a salesgirl in a shoe store. They got into the habit of meeting up in the back room of the Relais—usually around six-ten, after she got off work at the store. She was happy to find him there every night: he was company for her; he was polite and sweet. She was happy to find someone with whom she could pass the pre-dinner hours before heading back to her room. She didn’t talk much—it was he who told her things. He told her about Islam and the Bible. This didn’t surprise her particularly, even though he returned to the subject again and again. It didn’t surprise her, nothing surprised her: that was just the way she was made; nothing really surprised her. The first night he talked to her about Islam. The next day he slept with her and he talked to her about the Bible. He asked her whether she’d read it. She told him that she hadn’t. The following day, he brought a Bible with him and he read Ecclesiastes to her in the back room of the Relais. He read it loudly, his hands on his ears, in a passionate voice, following a liturgical rhythm. She was embarrassed by this and she wondered whether he wasn’t a little crazy. Afterward, he asked her what she’d thought of it. She hadn’t listened very carefully while he was reading because she was so embarrassed by it. She told him that it seemed reasonable to her, that it was fine. He smiled at her response; he explained that it was a fundamental text and that it was necessary to learn it. He had seen the Nash papyrus at the British Museum; he told her about it. He had spent several hours in front of the glass case, and he’d gone back again the next day, and for several days after that. He would never forget those moments. All that was left on the Nash papyrus was a few lines from Exodus. He talked to her about Exodus. “And the children of Israel were fruitful and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land was filled with them. . . . And they were grieved because of the children of Israel. . . .” He told her about all the Bibles—the Vulgate and the Septuagint, as well as the Vatican, the Sinaiticus, the Hebrew, Aramaic, Greek, and Latin Bibles. He never wanted to talk about her, and he never asked whether she was happy working in the shoe store, or how she’d come to Paris, or what she liked. They made love together. She liked to make love. It was one of the things that she liked. While they were making love, they didn’t speak. Once he was finished, he started talking again about St. Jerome, who had spent his life translating the Bible. He was thin, a little hunched. His hair was wavy and black, and he had very beautiful blue eyes, lined with thick black lashes. His skin was pale, his mouth very expressive, his pale lips barely grazing his teeth. He had a round nose, pronounced cheekbones. He wasn’t particularly clean—the collars of his shirts left something to be desired, and so did his nails, which were pink and rounded and too big for his slender hands, making the tips of his fingers look like spatulas. He had a concave chest. He had spent his youth reading the sacred texts of Islam and of Christianity. He had learned Hebrew, Arabic, English, German. He was still studying Arabic at the École des Langues Orientales—though, in fact, he knew it so well already that, while he was only in his second year when they met, he could read the Koran in the original. Sometimes he took her out to dinner, but always to cheap restaurants. He confessed one night that he was buying, on layaway, a Hebrew Bible from the sixteenth century. His father was rich, but gave him very little money. Still, he hadn’t been able to resist buying this Bible; he had already paid for a third of it, and would pay it off entirely the following month. He dreamed of the moment when he’d have that Bible in his hands. Even after they’d known each other for three weeks, they still hadn’t talked about anything other than the Bible and Islam. Always, he spoke to her of God, and of the eternal appeal that the idea of God held for men. She, herself, didn’t believe in God; she didn’t feel the least need to believe in God. She knew that there were people who believed in God, who felt that need. She didn’t believe that she’d spend the rest of her life at the shoe store; she believed that she’d get married and have children. She believed that she had been given her chance in the world—that was her only way of believing in God. He didn’t believe in God, either, but that didn’t bring him any consolation. He was indifferent to his father’s fortune, which was significant; it had been acquired through the process of vulcanizing tires for cars. He spoke sometimes of his house in Neuilly, and of a property in Hossegor. She knew that they would never get married. He didn’t even ask himself the question. She had never known a man like him. He talked about Muhammad the way one would talk about a brother—he told her about Muhammad’s life, his marriage to a merchant’s widow, his liaison with Maria the Copt. He knew the stories of each of Muhammad’s fourteen wives, Muhammad who had undertaken the task of monotheizing the Arabs. It had been a grand idea—Muhammad had defended it with a weapon in his hand and with celestial courage. It seemed to her a strange undertaking, but she said nothing to him. Nor did she tell him that sometimes she had had enough of helping people try on shoes all day. No, she kept those thoughts to herself; she didn’t, in any case, imagine that they would interest anyone—and that seemed normal to her. In the end, she got used to his ways, and whenever he wanted to recite entire suras of the Koran in Arabic, she let him do so; she thought that he was a nice guy. He bored her. He bought her a pair of stockings; he was a kind man. But since they’d begun sleeping together, she had no joy in her life. One night, she understood why. I am not made for him, she told herself. All her strength, her youthful joie de vivre seemed to shrivel in his presence; she couldn’t help it. Still, she was flattered. In a sense, she was lucky; she told herself that she learned things when she was with him. But those things brought her no pleasure. It was as if she had already known them, so small was her need to learn them. But she did try to please him; in the evening she read the Gospels, as he had asked her to. What Christ said to his mother made her want to cry. That he had been crucified so young, before his mother’s eyes, was even more revolting. But—it wasn’t her fault—she couldn’t go beyond a certain level of emotion. She did not think that he was God, this man. She thought that he was a man who’d had very noble plans; his death gave him back his humanity, which meant that she was unable to read his story without thinking of that of her own father, who had died the year before, crushed by an industrial wagon, one year before his retirement. He’d been the victim of an injustice that had begun long ago. That injustice had never ceased to exist on earth—it continued through the generations of man.
On Chesil Beach They were young, educated, and both virgins on this, their wedding night, and they lived in a time when a conversation about sexual difficulties was plainly impossible. But it is never easy. They were sitting down to supper in a tiny room on the second floor of a Georgian inn in Dorset. In the next room, visible through the open door, was a fourposter bed, rather narrow, whose cover was pure white and stretched startlingly smooth, as though by no human hand. Edward did not mention that he had never stayed in a hotel before, whereas Florence, after many trips as a child with her father, was an old hand. Superficially, they were in fine spirits. Their wedding, at St. Mary’s, Oxford, had gone well; the service had been decorous, the reception jolly, the sendoff from school and college friends raucous and uplifting. Her parents had not condescended to his, as they had feared, and his mother had not significantly misbehaved, or completely forgotten the purpose of the occasion. The couple had driven away in a small car belonging to Florence’s mother and arrived in the early evening at their hotel on the coast in weather that was not perfect for mid-June or the circumstances but was entirely adequate: it was not raining, but nor was it quite warm enough, according to Florence, to eat outside on the terrace, as they had hoped. Edward thought that it was, but, polite to a fault, he would not think of contradicting her on such an evening. So they were eating in their rooms before partially open French windows that gave onto a balcony and a view of a portion of the English Channel, and of Chesil Beach with its infinite shingle. Two youths in dinner jackets served them from a trolley parked outside in the corridor, and their comings and goings through what was generally known as the honeymoon suite made the waxed oak boards squeak comically against the silence. Proud and protective, Edward watched closely for any gesture or expression that might have seemed satirical. He could not have tolerated any sniggering. But these lads from a nearby village went about their business with bowed backs and closed faces, and their manner was tentative; their hands shook as they set items down on the starched linen tablecloth. They were nervous, too. This was not a good moment in the history of English cuisine, but no one much minded at the time, except visitors from abroad. The formal meal began, as so many did then, with a slice of melon decorated with a single glazed cherry. Out in the corridor, in silver dishes on candle-heated plate warmers, waited slices of long-ago roasted beef in a thickened gravy, soft boiled vegetables, and potatoes of a bluish hue. The wine was from France, though no particular region was mentioned on the label, which was embellished with a solitary darting swallow. It would not have crossed Edward’s mind to order a red. Desperate for the waiters to leave, he and Florence turned in their chairs to consider the view—of a broad mossy lawn and, beyond, a tangle of flowering shrubs and trees clinging to a steep bank, almost a cliff, that descended to a lane that led to the beach. They could see the beginnings of a footpath, dropping by muddy steps, a way lined by weeds of extravagant size, giant rhubarb and cabbages, they looked like, with swollen stalks more than six feet tall, bending under the weight of dark, thick-veined leaves. The garden vegetation rose before them, sensuous and tropical in its profusion, an effect heightened by the gray, soft light and a delicate mist drifting in from the sea, whose distant steady motion made lapping and sucking sounds against the grating pebbles. Their plan was to change into rough shoes after supper and walk on the shingle, between the sea and the lagoon known as the Fleet, and if they had not finished the wine they would take that with them, and swig from the bottle like gentlemen of the road. And they had so many plans, giddy plans, heaped up before them in the hazy future, as richly tangled as the early-summer flora of the Dorset coast, and as beautiful—where and how they would live, who their close friends would be, his job with her father’s firm, her musical career and what to do with the money her father had given her, and how they would not be like other people, at least, not inwardly. This was still the era—it would end later in that famous decade—when to be young was a social encumbrance, a mark of irrelevance, a faintly embarrassing condition for which marriage was the beginning of a cure. Almost strangers, they stood, strangely together, on a fresh pinnacle of existence, gleeful that their new status promised to promote them out of their endless youth—Edward and Florence, free at last! One of their favorite topics was their childhoods, not so much the pleasures as the fog of comical misconceptions from which they had emerged, and the various parental errors and outdated practices they could now forgive. From these heights they could see clearly, but they could not describe to each other certain contradictory feelings: they separately worried about the moment, sometime soon after dinner, when their new maturity would be tested, when they would lie down together on the fourposter bed and reveal themselves fully to each other. For more than a year, Edward had been mesmerized by the prospect that on the evening of a given date in June the most sensitive portion of himself would reside, however briefly, within a naturally formed cavity inside this cheerful, pretty, formidably intelligent woman. How this was to be achieved without absurdity, or disappointment, troubled him. His specific worry, based on one unfortunate experience, was of overexcitement, of what he had heard someone describe as “arriving too soon.” The matter was rarely out of his thoughts, but though his fear of failure was great, his eagerness—for rapture, for resolution—was far greater. Florence’s anxieties were more serious, and there had been moments during the journey from Oxford when she’d thought she was about to draw on all her courage to speak her mind. But what troubled her was unutterable, and she could barely frame it for herself. Where he merely suffered conventional first-night nerves, she experienced a visceral dread, a helpless disgust as palpable as seasickness. For much of the time, through all the months of merry wedding preparation, she had managed to ignore this stain on her happiness, but whenever her thoughts turned toward a close embrace—she preferred no other term—her stomach tightened dryly, and she felt nausea at the back of her throat. In a modern, forward-looking handbook that was supposed to be helpful to young brides, with its cheery tones and exclamation marks and numbered illustrations, she had come across certain words and phrases that almost made her gag: “mucous membrane,” and the sinister and glistening “glans.” Other phrases offended her intelligence, particularly those concerning entrances: “Not long before he enters her . . .” Or “Now at last he enters her.” And “Happily, soon after he has entered her . . .” Was she obliged on the night to transform herself for Edward into a kind of portal or drawing room through which he might process? Almost as frequent was a word that suggested to her nothing but pain, flesh parted before a knife: “penetration.” In optimistic moments, she tried to convince herself that she suffered from no more than a heightened form of squeamishness that was bound to pass. Certainly, the thought of Edward’s testicles, pendulous below his “engorged penis”—another horrifying term—had the potency to make her upper lip curl, and the idea of herself being touched “down there” by someone else, even someone she loved, was as repulsive as, say, a surgical procedure on her eye. But her squeamishness did not extend to babies. She liked them; she had looked after her cousin’s little boys on occasion and enjoyed herself. She thought that she would love being pregnant by Edward, and in the abstract, at least, she had no fears about childbirth. If only she could, like the mother of Jesus, arrive at that swollen state by magic. Florence suspected that there was something profoundly wrong with her, that she had always been different, and that at last she was about to be exposed. Her problem, she thought, was greater, deeper, than straightforward physical disgust: her whole being was in revolt against the prospect of entanglement and flesh; her composure and essential happiness were about to be violated. She simply did not want to be “entered” or “penetrated.” Sex with Edward could not be the summation of her joy but the price she must pay for it. She knew that she should have spoken up long ago, as soon as he had proposed, long before the visit to the sincere and soft-spoken vicar, the dinners with their respective parents, before the wedding guests were invited, the gift list devised and lodged with a department store, and the tent and the photographer hired, and all the other irreversible arrangements. But what could she have said? What possible terms could she have used, when she could not name the matter to herself? And she loved Edward, not with the hot, moist passion she had read about but warmly, deeply, sometimes like a daughter, sometimes almost maternally. She loved cuddling him, and having his enormous arm around her shoulders, and being kissed by him, though she disliked his tongue in her mouth and had wordlessly made this clear. She thought that he was original, unlike anyone she had ever met. He always had a paperback book, usually history, in his jacket pocket in case he found himself in a queue or a waiting room. He marked what he read with a pencil stub. He was virtually the only man Florence had met who did not smoke. None of his socks matched. He had only one tie, narrow, knitted, dark blue, which he wore nearly all the time with a white shirt. She adored his curious mind, his mild country accent, the huge strength of his hands, the unpredictable swerves and drifts of his conversation, his kindness to her, and the way his soft brown eyes, resting on her when she spoke, made her feel enveloped in a friendly cloud of love. At the age of twenty-two, she had no doubt that she wanted to spend the rest of her life with Edward Mayhew. How could she have dared risk losing him? There was no one she could have talked to. Ruth, her sister, was too young, and her mother, perfectly wonderful in her way, was too intellectual, too brittle, an old-fashioned bluestocking. Whenever she confronted an intimate problem, she tended to adopt the public manner of the lecture hall, and use longer and longer words, and make references to books that she thought everyone should have read. Only when the matter was safely bundled up in this way might she sometimes relax into kindliness, though that was rare, and even then you had no idea what advice you were receiving. Florence had some terrific friends from school and music college who posed the opposite problem: they adored intimate talk and revelled in one another’s problems. They all knew one another, and were too eager with their phone calls and letters. She could not trust them with a secret, nor did she blame them, for she was part of the group. She would not have trusted herself. She was alone with a problem she did not know how to begin to address, and all she had in the way of help was her paperback guide. On its garish red cover were two smiling bug-eyed matchstick figures holding hands, drawn clumsily in white chalk, as though by an innocent child. They ate the melon in less than two minutes while the lads, instead of waiting out in the corridor, stood well back, near the door, fingering their bow ties and tight collars and fiddling with their cuffs. Their blank expressions did not change as they observed Edward offer Florence, with an ironic flourish, his glazed cherry. Playfully, she sucked it from his fingers and held his gaze as she deliberately chewed, letting him see her tongue, conscious that in flirting with him like this she would be making matters worse for herself. She should not start what she could not sustain, but pleasing him in any way that she could was helpful: it made her feel less than entirely useless. If only eating a sticky cherry were all that was required. To show that he wasn’t troubled by the presence of the waiters, though he longed for them to leave, Edward smiled as he sat back with his wine and called over his shoulder, “Any more of those things?” “Ain’t none, sir. Sorry, sir.” But the hand that held the wineglass trembled as he struggled to contain his sudden happiness, his exaltation. Florence appeared to glow before him, and she was lovely—beautiful, sensuous, gifted, good-natured beyond belief. The boy who had spoken nipped forward to clear away. His colleague was just outside the room, transferring the second course, the roast, to their plates. It was not possible to wheel the trolley into the honeymoon suite for the proper silver service on account of a two-step difference in level between the room and the corridor, a consequence of poor planning when the Elizabethan farmhouse was “Georgianized” in the mid-eighteenth century. The couple were briefly alone, though they heard the scrape of spoons on dishes, and the lads murmuring by the open door. Edward laid his hand over Florence’s and said, for the hundredth time that day, in a whisper, “I love you,” and she said it straight back, and she truly meant it. Edward had a degree, a first in history from University College London. In three short years, he had studied wars, rebellions, famines, pestilences, the rise and collapse of empires, revolutions that consumed their children, agricultural hardship, industrial squalor, the cruelty of ruling élites—a colorful pageant of oppression, misery, and failed hopes. He understood how constrained and meagre lives could be, generation after generation. In the grand view of things, the peaceful, prosperous times that England was now experiencing were rare, and within them his and Florence’s joy was exceptional, even unique. In his final year he had made a special study of the “great man” theory of history—was it really outmoded to believe that forceful individuals could shape national destiny? Certainly his tutor thought so: in his view, History, properly capitalized, was a grand narrative, driven forward by ineluctable forces toward inevitable, necessary ends, and soon the subject would be understood as a science. But the lives that Edward had examined in detail—Caesar, Charlemagne, Frederick II, Catherine the Great, Nelson, and Napoleon (Stalin he had dropped, at his tutor’s insistence)—rather suggested the contrary. A ruthless personality, naked opportunism, and good luck, Edward had argued, could divert the fates of millions, a wayward conclusion that had earned him a B-minus, almost imperilling his first. An incidental discovery was that even legendary success brought little happiness, only redoubled restlessness, gnawing ambition. As he was dressing for the wedding that morning (tails, top hat, a thorough drenching in cologne), he had decided that none of the figures on his list could have known his kind of satisfaction. His elation was a form of greatness in itself. Here he was, a gloriously fulfilled, or almost fulfilled, man. At the age of twenty-three, he had already outshone them all. He was gazing at his wife now, into her intricately flecked hazel eyes, into those pure whites touched by a bloom of the faintest milky blue. The lashes were thick and dark, like a child’s, and there was something childlike, too, in the solemnity of her face at rest. It was a lovely face, with a sculpted look that in a certain light brought to mind an American Indian woman, a highborn squaw. She had a strong jaw, and her smile was broad and artless, right into the creases at the corners of her eyes. She was big-boned—certain matrons at the wedding had knowingly remarked on her generous hips. Her breasts, which Edward had touched and even kissed, though nowhere near enough, were small. Her violinist’s hands were pale and powerful, her long arms likewise; at her school sports days she had been adept at throwing the javelin. Edward had never cared for classical music, but now he was learning its sprightly argot—legato, pizzicato, con brio. Slowly, through brute repetition, he was coming to recognize and even like certain pieces. There was one that she played with her friends which especially moved him. When she practiced her scales and arpeggios at home, she wore a hair band, an endearing touch that caused him to dream about the daughter they might have one day. Florence’s playing was sinuous and exact, and she was known for the richness of her tone. One tutor said that he had never encountered a student who made an open string sing so warmly. When she was before the music stand in the rehearsal room in London, or in her room at her parents’ house in Oxford, with Edward sprawled on the bed, watching and desiring her, she held herself gracefully, with back straight and head lifted and tilted proudly, and read the music with a commanding, almost haughty expression that stirred him. That look had such certitude, such knowledge of the path to pleasure. When the business was music, she was always confident and fluid in her movements—rosining a bow, restringing her instrument, rearranging the room to accommodate her three friends from college, for the string quartet that was her passion. She was the undisputed leader, and always had the final word in their many musical disagreements. But in the rest of her life she was surprisingly clumsy and unsure, forever stubbing a toe or knocking things over or bumping her head. The fingers that could manage the double stopping in a Bach partita were just as clever at dripping tea all over a linen tablecloth or dropping a glass onto a stone floor. She would trip over her own feet if she thought she was being watched—she confided to Edward that she found it an ordeal to be in the street, walking toward a friend from a distance. And whenever she was anxious or too self-conscious her hand would rise repeatedly to her forehead to brush away an imaginary strand of hair, a gentle, fluttering motion that would continue long after the source of stress had vanished. How could he fail to love someone so strangely and warmly particular, so painfully honest and self-aware, whose every thought and emotion appeared naked to view, streaming like charged particles through her changing expressions and gestures? Even without her strong-boned beauty he would have had to love her. And she loved him with such intensity, such excruciating physical reticence. Not only his passions, heightened by the lack of a proper outlet, but also his protective instincts were aroused. But was she really so vulnerable? He had peeped once into her school-report folder and seen her intelligence-test results: a hundred and fifty-two, seventeen points above his own score. This was an age when these quotients were held to measure something as tangible as height or weight. When he sat in on a rehearsal with the quartet, and she had a difference of opinion on a phrasing or tempo or dynamic with Charles, the chubby and assertive second violinist, whose face shone with late-flowering acne, Edward was intrigued by how cool Florence could be. She did not argue; she listened calmly, then announced her decision. No sign then of the little hair-brushing action. She knew her stuff, and she was determined to lead, the way the first violin should. She also seemed to be able to get her rather frightening father to do what she wanted. Many months before the wedding, he had, at her suggestion, offered Edward a job. Whether Edward really wanted it, or dared to refuse it, was another matter. And she had known, by some womanly osmosis, exactly what was needed at that celebration, from the size of the tent to the quantity of summer pudding, and just how much it was reasonable to expect her father to pay. “Here it comes,” she whispered as she squeezed his hand, warning him off another sudden intimacy. The waiters were arriving with their plates of beef, his piled twice the height of hers. They also brought sherry trifle and Cheddar cheese and mint chocolates, which they arranged on a sideboard. After mumbling advice about the summoning bell by the fireplace—it had to be pressed hard and held down—the lads withdrew, closing the door behind them with immense care. Then came the tinkling of the trolley retreating down the corridor, then, after a silence, a whoop or a hoot that could easily have come from the hotel bar downstairs, and, at last, the newlyweds were properly alone. A shift or a strengthening of the wind brought them the sound of wavelets breaking on the shore below, like a distant shattering of glasses. The mist was lifting to reveal dense trees and foliage curving away above the shoreline to the east. They could see a luminous gray smoothness between the boughs and leaves which might have been the silky surface of the sea itself, or the lagoon, or the sky—it was difficult to tell. The altered breeze carried through the parted French windows an enticement, a salty scent of oxygen and open space that seemed at odds with the starched table linen, the corn-flour-stiffened gravy, and the heavy polished silver they were taking in their hands. The wedding lunch had been huge and prolonged. They were not hungry. It was, in theory, open to them to abandon their plates, seize the wine bottle by the neck, and run down to the shore and kick their shoes off and exult in their liberty. There was no one in the hotel who would have wanted to stop them. They were adults at last, on holiday, free to do as they chose. In just a few years’ time, that would be the kind of thing that quite ordinary young people would do. But, for now, the times held them. Even when Edward and Florence were alone, a thousand unacknowledged rules still applied. It was precisely because they were adults that they did not do childish things like walk away from a meal that others had taken pains to prepare. It was dinnertime, after all. And being childlike was not yet honorable, or in fashion. Still, Edward was troubled by the call of the beach, and if he had known how to propose it, or justify it, he might have suggested going out straightaway. The ceiling, low enough already, appeared now nearer to his head, and closing in. Rising from his plate, mingling with the sea breeze, was a clammy odor, like the breath of the family dog. Perhaps he was not quite as joyous as he kept telling himself he was. He felt a terrible pressure narrowing his thoughts, constraining his speech, and he was in acute physical discomfort—his trousers or underwear seemed to have shrunk. But if a genie had appeared at the table to grant Edward’s most urgent request, he would not have asked for any beach in the world. All he wanted, all he could think of, was himself and Florence lying naked together on or in the bed next door, confronting at last that awesome experience which seemed as remote from daily life as a vision of religious ecstasy, or even death itself. The prospect—was it actually going to happen? to him?—once more sent cool fingers through his lower gut, and he caught himself in a momentary swooning motion that he concealed behind a contented sigh. Like most young men of his time, or any time, without an easy manner, or a means of sexual expression, he indulged constantly in what one enlightened authority was now calling “self-pleasuring.” Edward had been pleased to discover the term. He was born too late in the century, in 1940, to believe that he was abusing his body, that his sight would be impaired, or that God watched with stern incredulity as he bent daily to the task. Or even that everyone knew about it from his pale and inward look. All the same, a certain ill-defined disgrace hung over his efforts, a sense of failure and waste, and, of course, loneliness. And pleasure was really an incidental benefit. The goal was release—from the urgent, thought-confining desire for what could not be immediately had. How extraordinary it was, that a self-made spoonful, leaping clear of his body, should instantly free his mind to confront afresh Nelson’s decisiveness at Aboukir Bay. Edward’s single most important contribution to the wedding arrangements had been to refrain, for more than a week. Not since he was twelve had he been so entirely chaste with himself. He wanted to be in top form for his bride. It was not easy, especially at night in bed, or in the mornings as he woke, or in the long afternoons, or in the hours before lunch, or after supper, in the hours before bed. Now here they were at last, married and alone. Why did he not rise from his roast, cover her in kisses, and lead her toward the fourposter next door? It was not so simple. He had a fairly long history of engaging with Florence’s shyness. He had come to respect it, even revere it, mistaking it for a form of coyness, a conventional veil for a richly sexual nature—in all, part of the intricate depth of her personality, and proof of her quality. He convinced himself that he preferred her this way. He did not spell it out for himself, but her reticence suited his own ignorance and lack of confidence; a more sensual and demanding woman, a wild woman, might have terrified him. Their courtship had been a pavane, a stately unfolding, bound by protocols never agreed upon or voiced but generally observed. Nothing was ever discussed—nor did they feel the lack of intimate talk. These were matters beyond words, beyond definition. The language and practice of therapy, the currency of feelings diligently shared, mutually analyzed, were not yet in general circulation. While one heard of wealthier people going in for psychoanalysis, it was not customary to regard oneself in everyday terms as an enigma, as an exercise in narrative history, or as a problem waiting to be solved. Between Edward and Florence nothing happened quickly. Important advances, permissions wordlessly granted to extend what he was allowed to see or caress, were attained only gradually. The day in October when he first saw her naked breasts long preceded the day when he could touch them—December 19th. He kissed them in February, though not her nipples, which he had grazed with his lips once, in May. She allowed herself to advance across his body with even greater caution. Sudden moves or radical suggestions on his part could undo months of good work. The evening in the cinema, at a showing of “A Taste of Honey,” when he had taken her hand and plunged it between his legs set the process back weeks. She became . . . not frosty, or even cool—that was never her way—but imperceptibly remote, perhaps disappointed, or even faintly betrayed. She retreated from him somehow without letting him ever feel in doubt about her love. Then, at last, they were back on course: when they were alone one Saturday afternoon in late March, with the rain falling heavily outside the windows of the disorderly sitting room of his parents’ tiny house in the Chiltern Hills, she let her hand rest briefly on, or near, his penis. For less than fifteen seconds, in rising hope and ecstasy, he felt her through two layers of fabric. As soon as she pulled away he knew he could bear it no more. He asked her to marry him. He could not have known what it cost her to put a hand—it was the back of her hand—in such a place. She loved him, she wanted to please him, but she had to overcome considerable distaste. It was an honest attempt—she may have been clever, but she was without guile. She kept that hand in place for as long as she could, until she felt a stirring and hardening beneath the gray flannel of his trousers. She experienced a living thing, quite separate from her Edward—and she recoiled. Then he blurted out his proposal, and in the rush of emotion, the delight and hilarity and relief, the sudden embrace, she momentarily forgot her shock. And he was so astonished by his own decisiveness, as well as mentally cramped by unresolved desire, that he could have had little idea of the contradiction she began to live with from that day on, the secret affair between disgust and joy. They were alone then, and theoretically free to do whatever they wanted, but they went on eating the dinner they had no appetite for. Florence set down her knife and reached for Edward’s hand and squeezed. From downstairs they heard the wireless, and the chimes of Big Ben that preceded the ten-o’clock news. Along this stretch of coast, television reception was poor because of the hills just inland. The older guests would be down there in the sitting room, taking the measure of the world with their nightcaps—the hotel had a good selection of single malts—and some of the men would be filling their pipes for one last time that day. Gathering around the wireless for the main bulletin was a wartime habit they would never break. Edward and Florence heard the muffled headlines and caught the name of the Prime Minister, and then, a minute or two later, his familiar voice, raised in a speech. Harold Macmillan had been addressing a conference about the arms race and the need for a test-ban treaty. Who could disagree that it was folly to go on testing H-bombs in the atmosphere and irradiating the whole planet? But no one under thirty—certainly not Edward and Florence—believed that a British Prime Minister held much sway in global affairs. Every year the Empire shrank as another few countries took their rightful independence. Now there was almost nothing left, and the world belonged to the Americans and the Russians. Britain, England, was a minor power—saying this gave a certain blasphemous pleasure. Downstairs, of course, they took a different view. Anyone over forty would have fought, or suffered, in the war and known death on an unusual scale, and would not have been able to believe that a drift into irrelevance was the reward for all the sacrifice. Edward and Florence would be voting for the first time in the next general election and were keen on the idea of a Labour landslide as great as the famous victory of 1945. In a year or two, the older generation who still dreamed of the Empire must surely give way to politicians like Gaitskell, Wilson, Crosland—new men with a vision of a modern country where there was equality and things actually got done. If America could have an exuberant and handsome President Kennedy, then Britain could have something similar—at least in spirit, for there was no one quite so glamorous in the Labour Party. The blimps, still fighting the last war, still nostalgic for its discipline and privations—their time was up. Edward and Florence’s shared sense that one day soon the country would be transformed for the better, that youthful energies were pushing to escape, like steam under pressure, merged with the excitement of their own adventure together. The sixties was their first decade of adult life, and it surely belonged to them. The pipe-smokers downstairs in their silver-buttoned blazers, with their double measures of Caol Ila, with their memories of campaigns in North Africa and Normandy, and their cultivated remnants of Army slang—they could have no claim on the future. Time, gentlemen, please! The rising mist continued to unveil the nearby trees, the bare cliffs behind them, and portions of a silver sea, while the smooth evening air poured in around the table, and they continued their pretense of eating, trapped in the moment by their private anxieties. Florence was merely moving the food around her plate. Edward ate only token morsels of potato, which he carved with the edge of his fork. They listened helplessly to the second item of news, aware of how dull it was of them to be linking their attention to that of the guests downstairs. Their wedding night, and they had nothing to say. The words rose indistinctly from under their feet, but they made out “Berlin” and knew instantly that this was the story that had lately captivated everyone: an escape from the Communist east to the west of the city by way of a commandeered steamship on the Spree, the refugees cowering by the wheelhouse to dodge the bullets of the East German guards. Florence and Edward listened to that, and then, intolerably, the third item as well, the concluding session of an Islamic conference in Baghdad. Bound to world events by their own stupidity! It could not go on. It was time to act. Edward loosened his tie and firmly set down his knife and fork in parallel on his plate. “We could go downstairs and listen properly.” He hoped he was being humorous, directing his sarcasm against them both, but his words emerged with surprising ferocity, and Florence blushed. She thought he was criticizing her for preferring the wireless to him, and before he could soften or lighten his remark she said hurriedly, “Or we could go and lie on the bed,” and nervously swiped an invisible hair from her forehead. To demonstrate how wrong he was, she was proposing what she knew he most wanted and she dreaded. She really would have been happier, or less unhappy, to go down to the lounge and pass the time in quiet conversation with the matrons on the floral-patterned sofas while their men leaned seriously into the news, into the gale of history. Anything but this. Her husband was smiling and standing and ceremoniously extending his hand across the table. He, too, was a little pink about the face. His napkin clung to his waist for a moment, hanging absurdly, like a loincloth, and then wafted to the floor in slow motion. There was nothing she could do, beyond fainting, and she was hopeless at acting. She stood and took his hand, certain that her own returning smile was rigidly unconvincing. It would not have helped her to know that Edward in his dreamlike state had never seen her looking lovelier. Something about her arms, he remembered thinking later, slender and vulnerable, and soon to be looped adoringly around his neck. And her beautiful dark eyes, bright with undeniable passion, and the faint trembling in her lower lip, which even now she wetted with her tongue. With his free hand he tried to gather up the wine bottle and the half-full glasses, but that was too difficult and distracting; the glasses bulged against each other, causing the stems to cross in his hands and the wine to spill. Instead he seized the bottle alone by the neck. Even in his exalted, jittery condition, he thought he understood her customary reticence. All the more cause for joy, then, that they were facing this momentous occasion, this dividing line of experience, together. And the thrilling fact remained that it was Florence who had suggested lying on the bed. Her changed status had set her free. Still holding her hand, he came around the table and drew near to kiss her. Believing it was vulgar to do so holding a wine bottle, he set it down again. “You’re very beautiful,” he whispered. She made herself remember how much she loved this man. He was kind, sensitive; he loved her and could do her no harm. She shrugged herself deeper into his embrace, close against his chest, and inhaled his familiar scent, which had a woodsy quality and was reassuring. “I’m so happy here with you.” “I’m so happy, too,” she said quietly. When they kissed she immediately felt his tongue, tensed and strong, pushing past her teeth, like some bully shouldering his way into a room. Entering her. Her own tongue folded and recoiled in automatic distaste, making even more space for Edward. He knew well enough that she did not like this kind of kissing, and he had never before been so assertive. With his lips clamped firmly onto hers, he probed the fleshy floor of her mouth, then moved around inside the teeth of her lower jaw to the empty place where three years ago a wisdom tooth had crookedly grown until removed under general anesthesia. This cavity was where her own tongue usually strayed when she was lost in thought. By association, it was more like an idea than a location, a private, imaginary place rather than a hollow in her gum, and it seemed peculiar to her that another tongue should be able to go there, too. It was the hard tapering tip of this alien muscle, quiveringly alive, that repelled her. His left hand was pressed flat above her shoulder blades, just below her neck, levering her head against his. Her claustrophobia and breathlessness grew, even as she became more determined that she could not bear to offend him. He was under her tongue, pushing it up against the roof of her mouth, then on top, pushing down, then sliding smoothly along the sides and around, as though he thought he could tie a simple up-and-over knot. He wanted to engage her tongue in some activity of its own, coax it into a hideous mute duet, but she could only concentrate on not struggling, not gagging, not panicking. If she was sick into his mouth, was one wild thought, their marriage would be instantly over, and she would have to go home and explain herself to her parents. She understood perfectly that this business with tongues, this penetration, was a small-scale enactment, a ritual tableau vivant of what was still to come, like the prologue of an old play that tells you everything that must happen. As she stood waiting for this particular moment to pass, her hands, for form’s sake, resting on Edward’s hips, Florence realized that she had stumbled across an empty truth, self-evident enough in retrospect, as primal and timeworn as Danegeld or droit du seigneur, and almost too elemental to define: in deciding to be married, she had agreed to exactly this. She had agreed that it was right to do this, and to have this done to her. When she and Edward and their parents had filed back to the gloomy sacristy after the ceremony to sign the register, it was this that they had put their names to, and all the rest—the supposed maturity, the confetti and cake—was a polite distraction. And if she didn’t like it she alone was responsible, for all her choices over the past year were always narrowing to this, and it was all her fault, and now she really did think that she was going to be sick. When he heard her moan, Edward knew that his happiness was almost complete. He had the impression of delightful weightlessness, of standing several inches clear of the ground, so that he towered pleasingly over her. There was pain-pleasure in the way his heart seemed to rise to thud at the base of his throat. He was thrilled by the light touch of her hands, not so very far from his groin, and by the compliance of her lovely body enfolded in his arms, and the passionate sound of her breathing rapidly through her nostrils. It brought him to a point of unfamiliar ecstasy, cold and sharp, just below the ribs, the way her tongue gently enveloped his as he pushed against it. Perhaps he could persuade her one day soon—perhaps this evening, and she might need no persuading—to take his cock into her soft and beautiful mouth. But that was a thought he needed to scramble away from as fast as he could, for he was in real danger of arriving too soon. He could feel it already beginning, tipping him toward disgrace. Just in time, he thought of the news, of the face of the Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan, tall, stooping, walruslike, a war hero, an old buffer—he was everything that was not sex, and ideal for the purpose. Some cursed him for having given away the Empire, but there was no choice, really, with these winds of change blowing through Africa. No one would have taken that same message from a Labour man. And he had sacked a third of his Cabinet in the “night of the long knives.” That took some nerve. “MAC THE KNIFE” was one headline; “MACBETH!” was another. Serious-minded people complained that he was burying the nation in an avalanche of TVs, cars, supermarkets, and other junk. He let the people have what they wanted. Bread and circuses. A new nation, and now he wanted us to join Europe, and who could say for sure that he was wrong? Steadied at last. Edward’s thoughts dissolved, and he became once more his tongue, the very tip of it, at the same moment that Florence decided that she could take no more. She felt pinioned and smothered, she was suffocating, she was nauseated. And she could hear a sound, rising steadily, not in steps like a scale but in a slow glissando, not quite a violin or a voice but somewhere in between, rising and rising unbearably, without ever leaving the audible range, a violin-voice that was just on the edge of making sense, telling her something urgent in sibilants and vowels more primitive than words. It might have been inside the room or out in the corridor, or only in her ears, like a tinnitus. She might even have been making the noise herself. She did not care—she had to get out. She jerked her head away and pushed free of his arms. Even as he stared at her in surprise, still openmouthed, a question beginning to form in his expression, she seized his hand and led him toward the bed. It was perverse of her, insane even, when what she wanted was to run from the room, across the gardens and down the lane, onto the beach to sit alone. Even one minute alone would have helped. But her sense of duty was painfully strong and she could not resist it. She could not bear to let Edward down. And she was convinced that she was completely in the wrong. If the entire wedding ensemble of guests and close family had been somehow crammed invisibly into the room to watch, these ghosts would all have sided with Edward and his reasonable desires. They would have assumed that there was something wrong with her, and they would have been right. She also knew that her behavior was pitiful. To survive, to escape one hideous moment, she had to raise the stakes and commit herself to the next, giving the unhelpful impression that she longed for it herself. The final act could not be endlessly deferred. The moment was approaching, just as she was foolishly moving toward it. She was trapped in a game whose rules she could not question. She could not escape the logic that had her leading, or towing, Edward across the room toward the open door of the bedroom, and the narrow fourposter bed and its smooth white cover. She had no idea what she would do when they were there, but at least that rising sound had ceased, and, in the few seconds it would take to arrive, her mouth and tongue were her own, and she could breathe and try to take possession of herself. 
Monkey Hill They were round-shouldered and droopy-headed like mourners, the shadowy child-size creatures squatting by the side of the sloping road. All facing the same way, too, as though silently venerating the muted dirty sunset beyond the holy city. Motionless at the edge of the ravine, they were miles from the city and the wide flat river that snaked into the glow, where the sun smoldered in a towering heap of dust like a cloud bank. What were they looking at? The light dimmed, went colder, and the creatures stirred. “They’re almost human,” Audie Blun-den said, and looked closer at their matted fur. With a bark like a bad cough, the biggest monkey raised his curled tail, lowered his arms, and thrust forward on his knuckles. The others, skittering on smaller limbs, followed him, their tails nodding, and the great troop of straggling monkeys moved along the road and up the embankment toward the stringy trees at the edge of the forest. “They scare me,” Beth Blunden said, and though the nearest monkey was more than fifteen feet away she could feel the prickle of its grubby fur creeping across the bare skin of her arm. But Audie hadn’t heard. He was peering into the thickening dusk. “Incredible,” he said, in a whisper. “I think they were watching the sunset, just lingering for the last warmth of the sun. Like us.” Beth stared at him, not because of what he’d said but the way he’d said it. He sounded so pompous, chewing on this simple observation. They travelled a lot, and she had noticed that travel often made her normally straightforward husband pretentious. They were at the edge of a low summit, one of the foothills of the Himalayas. From farther up the ridge, where they were staying—a health spa called Agni—on a clear day they could see snow-topped peaks. They had come to Agni planning to stay a week. The week had passed quickly; they’d stayed another, and now they had agreed to renew their arrangement from week to week, telling themselves that they’d leave when they were ready. They were world travellers, yet they’d never seen anything like this. The file of monkeys hurried up the road, with an odd skip-drag gait, the big bold leader up front, now and then barking in his severe way. “Good evening.” A man emerged from the twilit road, stepping neatly to allow the file of monkeys to pass by. The Blundens were not startled. Their time here had prepared them. They had not seen much of India, but they knew that whenever they hesitated anywhere, looking puzzled or even thoughtful, an Indian would step forward to explain, usually an old man, a bobble-headed pedant, a man urgent with irrelevancies. This one wore a white shirt, a thick vest and scarf, baggy pants, and sandals. Big horn-rimmed glasses distorted his eyes. “I see you are in process of observing our monkeys.” Like the other explainers, this one precisely summed up what they’d been doing. “Do not be perplexed,” he went on. It was true—they had been perplexed. “They are assembling each evening. They are taking last of warmth into bodies.” He had a voluptuous and slightly starved way of saying “bodies,” giving the word flesh. “I figured so,” Audie said. “That’s what I said to my wife—didn’t I, Beth?” “They are also looking at smoke and fires at temple in town.” That was another thing they’d found. Indians like this never listened. They would deliver a monologue, usually informative but oddly without emphasis, as though it were a recitation, and did not appear to be interested in anything that the Blundens had to say. “What temple? What town?” the Blundens asked at once. The Indian was pointing into the darkness. “When sun is down, monkeys hasten away—see—to the trees where they will spend night hours, safe from harm’s way. Yes, leopards are there. Not one or two but abundant. Monkeys are their meat.” “Meat” was another delicious word, which the man uttered as though tempted by it, giving it the sinewy density of something forbidden. But he hadn’t answered them. “There’s leopards here on Monkey Hill?” Audie asked. The old man seemed to wince in disapproval, and Audie guessed it was his saying “Monkey Hill”—but that was what most people at Agni called it, and it was easier to remember than its Indian name. “It is believed that Hanuman Giri is exact place where monkey god Hanuman plucked the mountain of herbals and healing plants for restoring life of Rama’s brother Lakshman.” Yes, that was it, Hanuman Giri. At first they’d thought that he was answering their question about leopards, but what was this about herbals? “As you can find in Ramayana,” the Indian said, and pointed with his skinny hand. “There, do you see mountain beyond some few trees?” He did not wait for a reply. “Not at all. It is empty space, where mountain once stood. Now it is town and temple. Shrine, so to say.” “No one mentioned any temple.” “At one time was Muslim mosque, built five centuries before, Mughal era, on site of Hanuman temple. Ten years ago, trouble, people invading mosque and burning. Hanuman is deity in image of monkey, as Ganesh is image of elephant,” the Indian said. “And what is your country, if you please?” “We’re Americans,” Beth said, happy at last to have been asked. “There are many wonders here,” the Indian said, unimpressed. “You could stay here whole lifetime and still not see everything.” He was scowling at the valley he had described, where the mountain had been uprooted. “How old do you think I am?” he asked. “You will never guess.” “Seventy-something?” “I am in my eighty-third year. I do yoga meditation every morning for one hour. I have never tasted meat, nor alcoholic beverage. Now I will go home and take little dhal and puri and curd, that is all.” “Where do you live?” “Just here. Hanuman Nagar.” “Your village?” “Township of Hanuman Nagar is substantial, with a market and textiles weaving and sundry spheres of commercial enterprise, including ironmongers, potmaking, clay-baking, for house tiles, kilns, and enamelling.” “No one mentioned a town,” Audie said. “As well as fruit and nut trees. I myself am wholesaling nut meats. Also, as mentioned, Hanuman shrine. Ancient temple. I bid you good evening.” With that he stepped into the darkness. The Blundens walked up the road in the opposite direction, remarking, as they went, on the poise of the old man, his self-possession, his pedantry. How easy it was to jeer at him, yet he had told them several things they hadn’t known—the town, its industries, the Hanuman story, the temple business. What they had been thinking of as simply Monkey Hill had a history, and drama, and now, on that lower slope, a settlement. “Did you understand what he said about the mosque and the temple?” Beth asked. Audie shrugged and said, “You get these Indians talking and they’ll flog a dead horse into dog food.” They had a surprise on their way up the road, walking back through the gate to the lodge. They had seen the gate when they came down but they had not noticed the signs: “Right of Entry Prohibited Except by Registered Guests” and “No Trespassing” and “Authorized Vehicles Only.” “This means you!” Audie said, shaking his finger into the darkness. “Get your happy ass out of here!” “You’re awful, Butch,” Beth said, and giggled because it was dark and they were in India, alone on this road, dust in their nostrils, and here he was making a joke, being silly. His unruly behavior was a comfort to her; she had loved him for it and regarded it as a form of protection for more than thirty years. Beyond the gateway, they saw the lights of the lodge, and Agni itself, the former maharaja’s residence, a baronial mansion, and in the bamboo grove the spa buildings, the pool, the palm trees, the yoga pavilion, glowing in spotlights, the whole place crowning the summit of the hill. Staff members passing them on the path pressed their hands together in prayer and said “Namaste” or “Namaskar,” and some of the Tibetans, in an attractive gesture, touched their right hands to their hearts. Audie did the same in return and found himself moved by it. They were getting up to leave the dinner table when they heard a sharp “Hello.” An Indian man had materialized next to them, carrying a clipboard. “Doctor,” Beth said—she had forgotten his name but then she saw his Agni nameplate. “Dr. Nagaraj.” He had told them earlier that he would see them at dinner, and they had forgotten. But he was unfussed, saying “Not to worry” as they apologized. “We’ve already eaten,” Audie said, seeing the waitress approach with three menus. She stood next to the table, looking serene, patient, attentive. He smiled at the girl. The nameplate pinned to her yellow-and-white sari was lettered “Anna.” She had a pale, round face, like a doll’s; her hair in a bun, drawn back tight, gave her prominent ears. She was lovely. He’d seen her at the spa in the white pajamas the massage therapists wore. “Is that short for something—maybe Annapurna?” he asked her. “No, sir. Mother of Mary. I am Christian, sir.” “Imagine that.” “From Nagaland, sir. Kohima, sir. Very far, sir.” “I’ve seen you in the spa.” “I also do treatments in daytime, sir.” “Are you eating, Doctor?” Audie said. “Thank you, no. I don’t take food after 6 P.M.” He spoke to the girl. “I will take some salted lassi.” “We should follow your example,” Beth said. “As you wish.” “Three of those, Anna, please.” “Thank you, sir.” She stepped silently away, clutching the menus. “Where did you say you went to medical school?” Audie asked. “Ayurvedic Institute in Mangalore.” “That makes you a doctor?” “Ayurvedic doctor, yes.” “Can you practice outside India?” “Where Ayurvedic medicine is licensed,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “May I see your right hand, sir?” And when Audie placed his big hand in the doctor’s warm slender one, the doctor said, “Just relax,” and scrutinized it, and made some notes on his clipboard. Still holding Audie’s palm, the doctor raised his eyes and did not smile. “You had a hard life until age thirty-five,” he said. “You prepared the ground, so to say. Then you reaped rewards. Next ten years very good for name and fame. Madam?” He offered his hand to Beth and she placed hers, palm upward, on his. “How long will I live?” Audie said. “Until eighty-five, if all is observed,” the doctor said without hesitating. He went back to examining Beth’s palm, and scribbling notes. “I don’t want to know how long I’m going to live,” Beth said. “Just give me some good news.” “Happy childhood, but you have no children yourself,” the doctor said. “Next ten years, excellent health. Never trust any person blindly, especially those who praise you. Follow intuition. Avoid crowds, smoke, dust.” The doctor strained, as though translating from a difficult language. “Avoid perfume. No litigation.” As the doctor tensed, showing his teeth, Beth said, “That’s enough,” and lifted her hand away. Audie glanced at her and assumed that she was also wondering whether Dr. Nagaraj was a quack. But that thought was not in her mind. Dr. Nagaraj sipped his lassi. He nodded and tapped his clipboard. “I took my friend Sanjeev to Rajaji National Forest to see the wild elephants. They are my passion. Did you not see my collection of Ganeshes in my office?” “I remember,” Beth said. “The elephant figurines on the shelves.” “Quite so.” The doctor drank again. “We encountered a great herd of elephants in Rajaji. They are not the same as the working domesticated elephants but a separate matter. They saw us. We were near the banks of the river. Do you know the expression ‘Never get between an elephant and water’?” “I guess we do now,” Audie said. “The elephants became enraged. I saw the bull elephant trumpeting and I ran and hid in the trees. Sanjeev was behind me, rooted to the spot, too frightened to move. I watched with horror as the huge elephant bore down on him, followed by the herd of smaller elephants, raising so much dust. Seeing them, Sanjeev bowed his head and knelt, knowing he was about to die. He couldn’t run, he couldn’t swim. But he did yoga—bidalasana, cat position, instinctive somehow.” Flexing his fingers, making a business of it, Dr. Nagaraj straightened the mat in front of him, tidied the coaster under his glass, then dipped his head and sucked at the lassi. “What happened?” Audie asked. Dr. Nagaraj went vague, his face slackening, then, “Oh, yes,” as he pretended to remember what he’d been saying. “The great bull elephant lowered his head as though to charge. But instead of impaling Sanjeev on his tusks, as I had expected, the elephant knelt, trapping him between the two great tusks. Not to kill him, oh, no. It was to protect him from the other elephants’ trampling him.” He seemed to be on the point of saying more when Beth announced that she was exhausted, that she would be a basket case if she didn’t get some sleep. They woke to a brilliant sunrise and felt that days like this existed only on this hilltop. The rest of India and the stormy world were elsewhere. Was it three weeks they’d been here? Or four? They had lost their sense of passing time. Being at Agni had strengthened them—it was like a cure for an obscure but tenacious ailment of which they’d been unaware. Rested, well looked after, like children on an extended holiday, they were invigorated, enjoying the power of contentment. Audie had even stopped teasing the waiters about the food, had stopped calling the uttapam “shit on a shingle.” The staff waited on the Blundens, devoted, and prescient, too, anticipating their desires. When they skipped meals, the waiters would say, “We missed you last night,” as though their absence were a diminishment. The Blundens were, to their surprise, grateful. They were wealthy, they owned four homes in four different states, and they knew all about employees and servants. They had gardeners, housekeepers, caretakers, but all of them were so well paid and so used to their employers as to be presumptuous. You need us seemed to show in their resentful eyes. Indian workers were neither presumptuous nor servile; well spoken, even educated, they were like people from another planet, whose eyes said, We need you. “I should start a company here,” Audie said. “Or do what everyone else is doing, outsource here.” They had arrived at Mumbai Airport one dark smoky midnight and had been driven swiftly past lamplit shacks to an enormous hotel, where they stayed in the Elephanta Suite—Audie intoned the name printed over the carved doorway. At dawn, they were taken back to the airport for the flight to the holy city, where they were met by a driver in a white uniform holding a platter of chilled face towels. All the Blundens had seen of India—the populous and chaotic India they’d been warned about, the India that made you sick and fearful and impatient—was the one-hour drive from the airport to the top of Monkey Hill. Audie thought of the drive as a long panning shot, the sort you’d get in a documentary with a jumping camera, the very first image a woman with no hands, begging at a stoplight just outside the airport, raising her stumps to Audie’s window (“Don’t look, honey”), then the overloaded lopsided trucks with “Horn Please” lettered on their bumpers, the oxcarts piled high with bulging sacks sharing the road with crammed buses painted blue and red, women slapping clothes onto boulders in a dirty stream, others threshing grain on mats. Whitewashed temples, mosques with minarets like sharpened pencils, the lean-tos and tents of squatters. Every few miles, huge billboards showing movie posters of bug-eyed fatties in tight clothes. This India had no smell and hardly any sound: the windows of the car were closed, the air-conditioner on. “They’ve got zip,” Audie said, his face to the car window. And, in conversation with various Indian guests at Agni, “Sure, I saw the Indian miracle.” The miracle to the Blundens was that India was not a country but a creature, like an elephantine body bristling with insect life, pestilential with people. And another miracle was that they’d found the remote part of it that was safe. Agni was in the heart of India, yet India seemed far away. Perhaps that was the secret to experiencing this country: you had to bury yourself so deeply in it that you avoided suffering it. The few times at Agni when they’d seen something exotic or strange—like the monkeys staring at the sunset—it was not anything they’d anticipated, not the India of stereotype, and that was so disconcerting that they withdrew through the Agni gate and shut India out. On their way to the yoga pavilion that morning, they saw ropes of smoke untangling in the sky, in the direction where the old man had pointed with his skinny hand. There was an earthy smell of damp flowers and also the smell of the distant fire. Half a dozen others had preceded them to the pavilion, and were already sitting on rush mats, in the lotus position, some of them with eyes closed in meditation. The Blundens took their places. Vikram, the yoga teacher, sat on a raised platform, his hands clasped under his chin. “Om,” Vikram chanted three times. Then, “Rub your hands, massage your eyes, feel the energy, feel the vibration. Open your eyes slowly, listen to the birds singing.” The Blundens stood, they stretched, they did “the tree”; they raised their arms, locked their hands. “For tadasana, mountain pose. Think, This is Hanuman mountain. Find something to concentrate on,” Vikram said. “A brick. A leaf.” Audie saw a crack on a pillar of the pavilion. He stared hard at it. It held him up; he balanced on the crack, and it turned from a flaw to a distinct profile, a coastline, something with symmetry and meaning. “Now, slowly, lie on mat with feet apart. Inhaling breath, raise legs twenty degrees and slowly let out breath.” They assumed the posture of the archer, the cat, the dog, and the crocodile. Without remarking on it to each other, the Blundens knew that they were improving. Beth, who had gripped her calves on the first day, could now touch the mat with her fingertips; Audie, who had trembled with his legs aloft, could now hold the position. The end of the session came sooner and sooner. Afterward, they lay for a minute or so, stretched flat on their mats, feeling the cool air on their faces, all the drowsiness of deep sleep wrung from their bodies. Lying there today, they were aware of the subtle smoke smell, as well as of something fouler—a whiff of excrement. “I am limp,” Audie said. “I feel wonderful.” Not limp, Beth thought. She felt, instead, a heightened awareness, a keener sense of smell and touch. She was not soothed so much as set on edge. “With each breath,” Audie was saying, “I was sort of inhaling peacefulness through my nose, calming myself and getting lighter.” Beth smiled at him and said, “It’s lovely—I want to go on doing this when we get home.” Yet nothing that Audie had described was what she had experienced. Lying on her mat, she had felt energy pulsing out of the solid earth and up her spine. Raising her eyes, tipping her head backward, she had sensed more energy pouring into her from the sky. Her fingers were limber, her grip was tested; she received power through her bare feet. “Meet you at the pool,” he said. “I’m going up to the lobby to sign on for another week.” Later, as they were reading under the sun shade by the pool, they became aware of a stirring just behind them—Audie heard a rustle of feet in dry leaves and the shake of branches, while for Beth it was less a sound than a prickling of her skin, a distinct physicality like a change in temperature, and a sense that she was being watched. They both turned, but they saw only a swaying tree limb. “Look at the time,” Audie said, twisting his wrist. “I’ve got a treatment.” “Which one?” “Abhiyanga.” He did not say that on his way back from the lobby he had stopped by the spa and signed up for this treatment, requesting that his massage therapist be Anna, whom they had met the previous evening in the restaurant. “This way, sir,” she said when he arrived at the spa, leading him up the marble stairs and past the gushing fountain to the massage room. A small dark woman awaited them there. She, too, greeted him, and bowed her head. “This is Sarita,” Anna said. The two women helped him onto the wooden table, where he lay on his stomach, his face on a folded towel. His first sensation was of hot oil drizzled on the small of his back, fingers stirring it, spreading it, pressing it into his spine. Anna was on one side, Sarita on the other. Without effort, Audie sank into a reverie about the women he had known. He always did this when he was massaged. He did not orchestrate the reverie—he just let it wash over him. He guessed that it was his reaction to being touched by a strange woman’s hands. He thought of the women he’d most desired in his life—not the casual sex partners or one-night stands but the affairs that had exhausted him with the pleasure and pain of love. Yet what he recalled about these women, in the course of the massage, was not the beginning of the romance or the succeeding trysts but the last time he’d seen each woman, the day he’d ended things, the point at which his desire had died down and his guilt at deceiving Beth had overcome him. Usually he had waited until after making love to say what he’d rehearsed: “I won’t be able to see you anymore.” Afterward, he had averted his eyes from the woman’s body as she dressed, fearing to be aroused by his pity. Each time, as he waited, the woman seemed to recede, to grow smaller, losing significance—as though she were standing on a railway platform and he were at the window of a train, pulling away, waving goodbye. Although these partings had been painful for him as well, he had always been able to say, “What did you expect? I’m a married man. I have obligations. What about my wife?” After each breakup, he’d bought something for Beth—a charm for her bracelet, some flowers, a scarf, a pair of earrings—and offered her the present, saying, “I love you, Tugar. I could never love anyone else.” As a child, unable to pronounce the word “sugar,” she’d said “tugar”—she had told him this once and the name had stuck. He used it only in moments of grateful tenderness, just as in similar moments of gratitude she called him Butch. “Be careful, sir.” Anna was wiping the oil from one of his feet, Sarita wiping the other. They helped him off the massage table and guided him to the shower, where he scrubbed himself clean. He left the room swaying slightly, fatigued and stunned by the experience. At lunch, Beth said, “How was it?” “The treatment? Very nice.” They were sitting outside, the sun-speckled shade falling across their table. “Did you swim?” Audie asked. “I wasn’t in the mood,” she said. “I’ve got a treatment now,” she added, setting her soup spoon down, patting her lips with her napkin. They kissed, brushing cheeks, puckering, a sound like tasting air. As Beth walked through the bamboo grove to the spa, she passed the gift shop. A woman in an Agni sari standing at the door stepped aside and said, “Please. You are welcome.” “I’m running late, but I wanted to know if you have any shahtooshes.” “We can obtain,” the woman said, a sweep of her head indicating her complete coöperation. “But it is not easy.” “In what way not easy?” “It is contraband item.” “I was thinking of looking in the town. I didn’t even know there was a town!” “Hanuman Nagar. Not available. Not hygienic.” “But there’s the monkey temple?” “Shrine, yes, but not temple. Disputed temple, so to say.” “I’m sure it’s interesting,” Beth said, because the woman was agitated, as the Indians at Agni seemed to be when they were contradicted, or even questioned. “There is such confusion, Madam. Even hullabaloo,” the woman said, widening her eyes. “Please, you desire shahtoosh, we will obtain full range of shahtoosh for you, with discretion.” At the spa, Beth was met by a young girl in a white uniform, in a posture of greeting, hands clasped, head bowed. “Namaskar. I am Prithi.” On the way to the massage suite, Prithi complimented Beth on her lovely bag (“It is smart, Madam”) and on her clear skin. Beth thanked her, but thought, Why not? I take care of myself. I eat right. I exercise. I’m only fifty. She was fifty-three, but what was the difference? The next big birthday was far off and unthinkable. Prithi helped her onto the table and tucked a towel around her. “Thai massage, Madam.” “Yes,” Beth murmured into the cushion under her face. She was tugged, first her shoulders and back, her legs pushed and pulled, each part of her body proving its elasticity; the physicality of the treatment was like an acknowledgment that she was fully alive. And there was something else—the oddness of having an Indian girl, hardly twenty, caress her this way. No man apart from Audie had ever seen her like this. But the rhythm of the massage, the hands moving across her skin, the sense of blood being expressed through her muscles—it all induced in her the sensation of being embraced and warmed by another body. She did not mind that the other person was a woman—she was, in fact, reassured by the thought that only another woman would understand. Audie was peering into the fishpond outside the dining-room lobby, seeming to stare at the white-andorange koi gulping at bubbles, but he was only killing time, looking sideways at Anna, who had changed into her restaurant uniform, the yellow-and-white sari. “Good treatment, sir?” Anna said, coming up behind him. “The best,” he said. “Thank you, sir.” He turned to size her up, wondering if she knew that she sounded like a coquette. He looked for a nuance on her lips, a lingering light in her eyes. “They are lucky fish,” Anna said. “Lucky in what way?” “One Japanese guest tell me so, sir. Lucky fish.” The fish were fat, their fins like wings, their big purselike mouths gasping. “Jesus Christ is a fish, sir.” Audie dipped his head to the side, as he did when he heard something unexpected. “The sign of fish is in all church, sir. Is a symbol, you can say, sir.” Do I know this? Audie wondered, yet he was distracted by Anna’s doll-like face, her slightly slanted eyes in puffy sockets, her fleshy lips. “Is that on the menu?” Beth said, stepping through the door and seeing her husband and the employee at the rail of the fishpond. Dr. Nagaraj appeared just then as well, and Anna stepped back and became formal, deferring to a superior in the Indian way. “We were discussing the fish,” Audie said. “Ah, yes. Fish.” He said peesh, making it sound inedible. “The Christian symbolism. Jesus is represented as a fish.” Dr. Nagaraj waggled his head; he was saying yes, but he didn’t have a clue. Anna, self-conscious, sidled back to the table of menus. “Will you join us for dinner?” Beth asked. As the doctor waggled his head again, Audie said, “Just pineapple juice for me. I’m not eating after six.” “Avoid sour juices,” Dr. Nagaraj said. Beth said, “I’m hungry—I’m eating.” The massage had given her an appetite—hunger she took to be a sign of health. “Hinduism predates Christianity by many centuries,” Dr. Nagaraj said at the table, without prompting. “You can find god Agni in Rigveda—more than three thousand of years back. It is our path, our way of seeing the world, our consolation and salvation. Multiple functions and essential to Ayurveda.” Dr. Nagaraj had a gift for rumbling on, deaf to any interruptions, as though no one else present had anything worthwhile to say—which, Audie reflected, was probably so, since neither he nor Beth had much to add. Beth was intent now on one of Dr. Nagaraj’s stories. “Elephants,” he was saying, “bearing down on my friend Sanjeev.” Hadn’t he told this story before? “But Sanjeev could not swim. He sank to his knees, as big bull elephant approached. And elephant, too, fell to his knees and enclosed poor Sanjeev between his great tusks.” “And protected him from the other elephants,” Beth said. “In beginning, yes, protection was there. Tusks were there,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “But elephant rose to his feet and withdrew. Sanjeev remained on his knees, head down. When coast was clear, I went down and found that my friend was dead.” Surely this was the same story, with a different ending? “He had not been crushed,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “He somehow died of heart failure. I could not help him, yet I had brought the poor man to this place. Of course, I was devastated.” “Did he have a family?” “No wife, no children. But parents are there.” “Life’s so short,” Beth said. Dr. Nagaraj smiled. “No, no. Life continues. It flows. There is no end.” The next day, Dr. Nagaraj left a message tucked under their door, requesting a meeting at one o’clock in his office. He had never written to them before; his handwriting was severe and intimidating, and one was their lunch hour. “What’s this all about?” Audie asked. They met him together, feeling importuned, then sheepish when it turned out that Dr. Nagaraj was only being helpful. Somehow he had discovered that Beth had been looking to buy a shahtoosh, perhaps more than one. Dr. Nagaraj said that he knew a certain man, but that it was not possible for this shahtoosh seller to enter Agni. It was not permitted. “He is just a common hawker, you see. From the town.” “The town we keep hearing about,” Beth said. “Hanuman Nagar,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “How will we get there?” “I will request a vehicle—a motorcar.” They met the car not in the circular drive but in a more circumspect way, at the Agni entrance. The old-fashioned white sedan was waiting, curtains on its windows, tassels dangling from the curtains. The Blundens got into the back seat, Dr. Nagaraj in the front with the driver, and they left Agni for only the second time in more than three weeks. The road levelled off at a fork, the wider path continuing to descend, a narrower one traversing the slope. The car turned onto this narrower road, into the glaring afternoon sun, which dazzled them. They averted their eyes until they were in shadow again, the shadow of a row of roadside huts and shops, where there were plodding cows and two boys kicking a dusty blue ball. This was the talked-about town, the town they had smelled and heard, the town of the smoke. And now that they were in it they could match the sounds to their sources—not just the laboring buses and trucks but the wailing of music, shrieking songs. Dr. Nagaraj said nothing. The Blun-dens sat horrified, as they had been on the way from the airport, at the squalor, the crowds of people. They drew level with a bus stop where a rusty Tata bus was letting off passengers. “What’s that?” Beth asked. Up ahead there was a pile of soot-blackened rubble inside the sort of walled courtyard she associated with holy places and private villas. “Shrine,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “Are they tearing it down?” “No. Building it up. Formerly it was mosque. Before mosque it was Hindu temple. Back to Hindu temple now.” Smoke swirled behind the fortified gates. “Who are those people?” “Yatris. Pilgrims. Holy people. They are venerating the site. Also some people protecting the site.” “Protecting it against whom?” “Goondas. Rascals, and Muslims.” Now they could see occupiers and protesters, both sides carrying signs, all of them shouting. “How can you tell they’re Muslims?” “Beards are there.” “Is this a problem?” “It is situation,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “What if it gets out of hand?” “Not possible. Although this is a Muslim area, so to say, Muslim people are outnumbered in this town. This is historic town. This town is mentioned favorably in Atharvaveda. This is Hanuman town, where he seized mountain of medicinal herbals to heal the sickly Lakshman.” As he lectured them, Beth saw that a detachment of uniformed policemen had lined up and were holding four-foot sticks against a crowd of men—the men who were shouting and shaking their fists at another group of men inside the enclosure, where a bonfire blazed. “I think I mentioned how I led my friend among the elephants,” Dr. Nagaraj said, hardly seeming to notice the people peering into the car, the motorcycles and handcarts vying for space on the road, or their own furiously honking driver. “I seem to recall it,” Audie said. Beth was only half listening. She could feel the tension of the town in her body like a cramp; she could smell it and taste it. It was dreadful and disorderly, yet she was roused by its truth, as if by the revelation of something that had been hidden from her. It was India with the gilt scraped off, hungry India, the India of struggle, India at odds with itself. “I was devastated,” Dr. Nagaraj said. He was still talking about his friend, dead among the elephants. “I could not stop sobbing at his funeral.” They had come to the shop. Beth could see the stack of shahtooshes on the counter, the welcoming shopkeeper pushing people aside so that they could alight. They entered the shop and were shown to plastic chairs. The shopkeeper then pulled a wooden shutter closed, as though to conceal the transaction. With some ceremony, he unfolded a shahtoosh and presented it to Beth to admire. Before she could register her pleasure, he gave her another one. “His grandmother took me aside. She said, ‘Do you know the story of Vishnu, who rode on the great bird Garuda to the House of the Gods?’ ” “Feel—chiru,” the shahtoosh seller was saying, unfolding one piece after another, draping some of them on the counter and thrusting others into Beth’s hands. “ ‘As Vishnu and Garuda entered the House of the Gods they saw a small bird at the gateway. The Lord of Death also entered, and he smiled at the little bird. Garuda was so shocked at this he seized the little bird in his beak and took him fifty kilometres away, to save him from the Lord of Death.’ And by the way,” Dr. Nagaraj said, “these are first-quality shahtoosh. Made from chin hairs of very rare Tibetan antelope. Woven in Kashmir.” Audie said, “Is that the end of the story? The little bird was saved?” In their experience, Dr. Nagaraj never said yes or no. He considered Audie’s question and said, “When ultimately they left the House of the Gods, Vishnu said, ‘Where is the little bird?’ ” Dr. Nagaraj had turned his back to the Blundens and was speaking into the shadows of the shop, where a naked child was slapping the tiles with a plastic cup. “Before Garuda could reply, Lord of Death said, ‘I smiled to see little bird here, because he was supposed to be fifty kilometres away, to meet his death.’ ” Hearing this, Beth was stricken, as though Dr. Nagaraj had pinched her, and without thinking she said, “We must be going.” She was overcome by the mustiness of the shop, the incense that seemed a mingling of perfume and cow shit, the imploring shahtoosh seller, and, within earshot, the yells of the men at the shrine. She picked up two scarves and said, “I’ll take these two.” “I told him you are not tourists, you are yatris yourselves, doing puja at Agni.” “That’s us,” Audie said. “I will deal with money. You know it is some thousands of dollars?” Dr. Na-garaj said. “You can pay me later. I will find you in the car.” They made their way to the car through the crowd that had gathered to gape at them. Dr. Nagaraj got into the front seat and they were soon driving back up the main street of the cracked and littered town. “How long has this mob scene been going on?” Audie asked. “Some years now.” Audie inquired in a reasonable voice, “Would you mind explaining your story? Maybe I’m stupid, but I don’t get it.” “Listen, my friend. Grandmother of Sanjeev said to me, ‘Don’t be sad. Garuda guided the little bird to his death unknowingly, as you guided Sanjeev. You were meant to deliver him.’ ” They continued the rest of the way to Agni in silence. Then, as the car slowed at the gate, Dr. Nagaraj began speaking again. “ ‘Maybe this is your purpose in world,’ she said. ‘To guide people to their fate. You are vehicle.’ ” On the way to the lodge, Audie asked the cost of the scarves. Dr. Nagaraj seemed relieved, and smiled as the money was counted into his hand. “A great bargain, sir. And you are so lucky. This antelope is almost extinct.” “Amazing story, eh?” Audie said, once they were back in their room. She stared at him. “About that guy Sanjeev. The Lord of Death. Kind of an ‘Appointment in Samarra’ thing.” Beth said, “I didn’t know what he was talking about. Anyway, didn’t you say he was a quack?” “I like that he could talk a dog off a meat wagon,” Audie said. “And I sometimes think I’m a quack, a phony.” She stared at him again, distancing herself with a smile. He said, “Don’t you ever think that?” “About you?” “About yourself.” Normally he became hot and impatient when he had to clarify something obvious to her, but he wasn’t impatient now; he was sympathetic and mild. “No,” she said. Now it was early afternoon. She was reading by the pool, on the platform under the trees, hidden by a hedge from anyone who happened to be in the chaise longues—but there was no one there, or in the pool. Audie was at a treatment. She had ordered a lemonade and a grilled-vegetable sandwich, but had only sipped at the drink. With a thump, something landed behind her, the sandwich was snatched, and she flinched, raising her arms, and saw a monkey bound away. In her instant memory it was a monkey, but, at the moment of muddled confrontation, she had glimpsed the thing as a hairy, hostile child, and she was too panicked to scream. After leaping into the biggest of the trees, the monkey found a branch, grasped it with his feet, and began to gnaw at the sandwich, scattering vegetables. These were seized by other monkeys, maybe a dozen, big and small, more insolent than afraid, with a malevolent patience, a defiance that she identified—just a hunch, something about the set of their jaws, the biting faces—as the courage of hunger. They moved toward her without a sound, scarcely seeming to touch the deck boards in their tumbling, noiseless flowing, their faces twitching. She opened her mouth to shout but could not make a sound. Their hair prickled on her body, scraped at her legs. They grabbed more of the loose vegetables that were lying on the deck, poked them into their mouths, yet kept their eyes on her. She felt that they wanted to eat her face, push her legs apart, squat on her breasts and stink. She covered her face with one arm, flung her other arm across her breasts, and went numb from the waist down, as if in a dream where she found her legs crippled. Then there was the crack of something landing in their midst—a heavy clattering stick—and the monkeys fell back. Then another stick with a thump as a man hurried past Beth, shouting, “Shoo! Shoo!” Holding his sandals in his hands, the man waved his arms, still shouting, physically thrusting the creatures away, into the trees, finally picking up the sticks he had thrown and flinging them again, until at last the monkeys were out of sight. “Don’t worry, Madam,” the man said, turning to her. He was young, hardly a man, in white pants and a white smock. He looked beautiful. “They are very bold,” he said. He retrieved his sandals and slipped them on. He was smiling—lovely teeth, great confidence, not fazed at all. Audie would have been gasping. She made a grateful sound, meant to be “Thank you,” but it was just a nervous exhalation. “You see, they have been around humans for so long they have lost their fear. They are used to being fed by hand, at the temple in town—they are like little gods, spoiled children, you can say. Are you all right, Madam?” “Where did you come from?” Beth said, with difficulty. “Hanuman Nagar.” “No, no,” she said. She rephrased the question. “Were you watching them?” “I was watching you, Madam.” He faced her squarely, not smiling, looking intently at her. “Thank you.” He did not blink. He said, “Since you arrived at Agni, I have not stopped watching you.” That made her pause; she was at a loss to reply. “I don’t know how to thank you,” she said. “Please take this,” and she reached into her bag by the chair and took out some rupees. They felt like cloth in her hand they were so worn. “Oh, no, Madam,” the young man said, and put his hands behind his back in a prim gesture. “Isn’t there anything?” “Yes.” He was quick—already he had control of the situation. “You can request me.” “Request you?” “For treatment,” he said. “Ask for Satish.” The slow drip of hot oil on Audie’s back, the pressure and heat, suggested her fingertips, and when she drizzled the oil in widening circles it was as though she were caressing him. She did not say much, hardly spoke unless he asked a direct question. Yet the confident intelligence in her hands moved down his back, a wise inquiry in the motion of her fingers. She was able by touching him to find parts of his body that, until that moment, were unknown to him. Her insinuating hands awakened a knotted muscle, rested on it, and pushed, giving it life. “That’s nice.” Anna paired her thumbs and pushed again. “You are having this in America, sir?” “Doubt it.” She went silent. Perhaps she hadn’t understood his grunt. She worked harder still on the muscles next to his spine. “I would like to go to America. Where is your home, sir?” He did not say, as he usually did, “That’s a hard question. We’ve got a place in Florida, an apartment in New York, a house in Maine . . .” “I’m from Boston,” he said. “Near Boston.” “Boston Tea Party. Boston Red Sox. Boston beans.” He laughed into his towel, then raised his head and asked, “Ever been outside of India?” “Only to Delhi, sir. School trip, sir.” That reminded him of how young she was. He said, “You could probably make a lot of money in the States. Doing massages.” “But also to meet people, sir. To be happy, sir. To be free, sir.” “You’re free here, aren’t you?” “No, sir. Not free. It is very hard here for me. As I mentioned, I am Christian, sir.” She was now working on his right arm. She had begun on his shoulder, squeezed and pressed her way to his wrist and was massaging his palm and, one by one, his fingers. Her manipulating his fingers he found like an act of the purest friendship, more sensual, more intimate, as she pushed and pulled, than her touch on any other part of his body. Take my hand, he thought. It meant everything. “Wouldn’t you be afraid to be in the United States alone?” The way she touched him told him that she was thinking. “Maybe I will find someone to look after me.” “Give you money, you mean?” “I will earn it, sir.” He asked, “What would you do?” “I can do so many things, sir.” “What makes you so sure?” “I have training, sir.” “Lots of girls have training.” “But my training, sir, is not in school.” “Experience?” “Yes, sir. Best teacher, sir.” She caught his fingers and brushed them against her body, he could not tell where, perhaps her breast or her smooth cheek. He was aware that he had had this conversation many times in his life, the flirting, the allusion, the euphemism, in his earliest talks with girls, as a boy of twelve or thirteen, and almost fifty years on, the same innuendo, the same themes—the language of suggestion, never quite coming to the point yet always knowing what the point was. He delighted in this inexplicit talk. “Sir?” “Yup?” “Please turn over, sir.” “Not just now.” She sighed in approval. She knew that he was aroused and embarrassed. He could not turn over without exposing himself, bulging against the covering. “That is all right, sir.” She was trying to be serious. “Give me a minute. I’m happy.” “I want to please you, sir.” “You’re doing fine.” “Thank you, sir.” She leaned against his back, as though embracing him, but using her elbow, her forearm, her fists on his packed muscles. When he was facing away from her, she seemed bolder. “Did you learn that in school?” She did not hesitate, she pressed harder, her whole body upon him. “No, sir.” He could tell she was smiling. “In life, sir.” For a few days, Audie and Beth found reasons to be busy, to remain apart at the very times when, a week earlier, they would have been punctually together, at the pool, in the restaurant, in their suite, at yoga, awaiting a treatment, poking golf balls across the putting green, side by side. Now, “I guess I just missed you,” Beth would say, as a way of explaining her all-afternoon absence. “That’s O.K.,” Audie would reply. “I was tied up longer than I’d expected.” Each was grateful for the other’s casualness; the fact that they did not need to explain their absences to each other kept them ambiguous, almost without meaning, as they’d been over the years when, late coming home from the office, Audie had said, “I was held up.” On many of those occasions he’d been with a woman—his secretary, or someone from the company, or the wife of an employee. Beth, in her absences, which were mostly for treatments, wanted to be touched. And in the hours in between she needed to be alone, to reflect on being touched, held, caressed, and whispered to, even if the words were only “Please relax your arm” or “Please turn over for me” or “Is it too hard, Madam?” She found that she could not pass easily from the intimacy of the treatment room to a meal or a drink with Audie. With Audie, she would have felt vulnerable and slightly ridiculous. But when she was alone there was something delicious in her reverie—no one to judge it, nothing to measure it by. It was almost like the fantasy of a virgin. Still, she did nothing to encourage Satish—in fact, she resisted him. With the sort of impatient clumsiness that he’d used against the wild monkeys, he offered her all sorts of invitations. First, she pretended not to understand, then she flatly refused. Yet why did even her refusals make her flush with guilt? Perhaps because she had never before kept a secret from Audie? And none of her refusals had been so strong as to discourage the boy. As the days passed, Satish became more familiar, which was his way of being persistent. One day, as she stood in her robe before a massage, the blinds half drawn, he raised his hands and said, “Moment, Madam.” Satish assumed the lotus position, and then, twining his legs and falling backward, hauled himself up in a series of specific but fluid moves, tipped forward onto his forearms, supporting his head and whole body, and raised his legs until they were vertical. Finally, he lowered his legs over his back and lifted his neck, so that his feet touched his face. “Vrischikasana,” he grunted through his wiggling toes. “I’ve seen that in circuses,” Beth said. “Scorpion pose.” He was, she realized, trying to impress her, and his effort made her smile. “You see this watch?” he said another day. She looked, but she could not tell the make; it was plump, and it seemed absurdly technical. “Chronometer,” he said, pressing the protrusions at its edges. “Timer, digital readout. Twistable bezel. Totally waterproof. Immersible for two hundred metres. Self-winding.” “I thought it was a bracelet.” “Is also jewelry. Valuable!” “You’re not supposed to wear that when you do massages, are you?” Beth took him by the hand and turned his wrist over and squeezed the watchband, plucking open its fastener, slipping it off. “Isn’t that better?” She had touched him for the first time. He looked chastened as he ducked outside to allow her the privacy to slide beneath the sheet on the massage table. But in the half-dark of the room, on his return, he was confident again, working on her shoulders, breathing softly against her neck. “Have a nice night,” he said to her when the massage ended. It seemed like an inquiry. She said, “What do you do at night?” “I repair to my house. Reading to improve education. Yoga to improve body and mind. Also painting.” “You paint pictures?” “Classical painting,” he said. “Indian gods and goddesses.” What made her feel awkward was that she knew, before he said another word, where this entire conversation was going, the next elements of it, her questions, his responses, and how in a matter of minutes it would end. And she had started it. “Lovely,” she found herself saying. “It sounds lovely.” “Painting with brush. Making pictures for puja.” He wobbled his head, a misleading movement she now understood as affirmative. “You’re a man of many talents.” She was glad that no one could hear these predictable phrases and clichés. It was as though she were reciting dialogue that someone else had prepared for her. Perhaps all love affairs began like this, as repetition, as mimicry. Yet she wanted to believe that the feeling was real and originated within her. It was better not to say anything, better just to smile, to give nothing a name. In spite of this, another line came to her. “I’d like to see them.” “Yes, please.” “Maybe sometime.” “Madam, tonight.” Against her will, she found herself agreeing, and afterward, avoiding Audie at the pool, she felt excited, thrilled, yet jittery, like a girl. Satish had said that he’d meet her below the laundry building, which lay on the path that wound down to the main road into Hanuman Nagar. After dinner, she told Audie that she was going up to the spa, but instead ducked into the bamboo grove and walked quickly through the thick flowering trees into the smoky air that rose from the town. A person thrusting a broomstick at her rose up on the road and caused her to gasp. “Madam.” “Who are you?” “Chowkidar, Madam.” “What do you want?” Fright made her severe, and her severity made the man deferential. He said, “Protection only, Madam.” His mildness calmed her. She found some rupees in her pocket—in the darkness she could not tell how much—and handed the notes to the watchman. He touched them to his forehead and bowed to let her pass. The downward path was so narrow that her shoulders brushed the bushes on either side. The sense that she was leaving one world for another was palpable. Where she’d thought she saw a monkey squatting on its heels, a man stood up. She was too startled to scream; her hands flew up to protect her face. Then she saw that it was Satish. “Not to worry,” he said. Rattled, she said, “I can’t stay long.” “It is near,” he said, placing a finger on her elbow to steer her, and when she reacted he said, “Sorry!” His touch made her stumble, the path here littered with loose stones. He was still apologizing as they passed behind a shop, a wall that reeked of urine, and came out onto the road. In the distance, she saw the shopfronts of Hanuman Nagar, merchandise hanging in doorways, and the fires at the monkey temple—men waving torches, chanting, the line of policemen holding sticks. “Cart Road,” Satish said, blocking her way as a truck went slowly past in gusts of diesel fumes. She followed him, her head down, walking just above the gutter and the storm drain, thinking, This is insane. “I have to go back,” she said, and felt even more like a girl, but a foolish one. “It is just here,” he said, fluttering his fingers into the middle distance. All she saw were small yellow windows, like lanterns hanging in darkness, faces at some of the windows, and the blue flicker of TV sets. At one doorway, she smelled meat grilling, the sputter and hiss of hot snapping fat. Satish must have smelled it, too. He said, “Muslim people. Many here. This we are calling”—he was pointing at Monkey Hill but the sweep of his arm seemed to take in the whole province—“Muslim belt.” She said, “I can’t go any farther.” “We have arrived,” he said, and led her up a path of broken paving stones, past a small astonished girl in a bright-pink dress dawdling by a lit doorway, past a padlocked shed, to a door latch, which he manipulated, pushing the door open. Beth stepped inside quickly, fearing to be seen, and was at once suffocated by the smell of cooked food, steaming on a low table. “Bhaji,” Satish said, lifting the lid of a tin pot. Then more lids up and down, “Mung dhal. Uttapam. Bindi. Naan bread. Rice.” “Very nice,” Beth said, overcome by the heat, the stifling aromas, and a distinct smell of turpentine. “Curd,” Satish said, offering her a dish of crudded yogurt. “I really must go back,” she said. “Madam,” he said. “Take some food.” “I’m not hungry,” she said, and remembered from a book on India that it was considered offensive to refuse food in an Indian household, but that a small symbolic mouthful was all that was necessary. She said, “But some of that curd would be delicious. Just a touch.” He spooned some into a bowl and handed it to her, saying, “Sit, please, Madam. A drink. Hot tea. Juices. Cool water.” She was rechecking the position of the door, preparing her exit, when she saw an assortment of foot-high paintings propped on a shelf, under a bare light bulb. “No, thank you. Are those your pictures?” She was still standing, eying the door. He went to the paintings and selected a highly colored one of a fat naked baby attended by a smiling chubby-cheeked woman in a yellow sari. “Bal Krishna,” he said. “Krishna baby. Mother Yashoda.” Moving closer to the shelf, she saw other pictures she had taken to be animals, yet some of them had human features in spite of their snouts and multiple arms. “Ganesh. Hanuman. Durga. I do with brush. Classical.” “Superb. Thank you. Now I must go.” But as soon as she turned and found the latch and got the door ajar he was next to her, embracing her, pressing himself against her, whinnying, “Madam. Madam.” “I don’t feel at all well,” she said. “I have aspirin, Madam.” His hands and fingers flexed on her waist, as though testing its pliability. But now she had got the door open, and the night air had a chilly smell of dirt and wood smoke that clung like grime to her face and arms. Just a few feet down the path, the small girl in the pink dress gaped. Satish had pursued Beth, but when he saw the little girl he hesitated, seemingly overcome, and dropped his arms to his sides, gathering his hands into his pajama top as though in a reflex of shame. Without a word, moving efficiently in fear, Beth stepped along the walkway and fled into the road, keeping her head down when car headlights passed her. She looked back several times, to make sure that she was not being followed. She slipped into the suite with the stealth of a burglar, and called out “Audie?” But there was no reply. The suite was empty. In the darkness outside the Agni enclosure, the smell was more apparent. Audie had stood there just at nightfall, watching the sun drop as though dissolving into the depths of dust and haze that lay in thick bars above the horizon, obliterating the mountains. Rising around him was the sharp smell of dry trees, the dander of grubby monkey fur, boiled beans, burned meat, foul water, until the darkness itself seemed to stifle him. Had Beth not announced that she was getting an evening treatment, he would not have come. But impulsively he had called Anna’s cell phone and, as though expecting his call, she had given him explicit directions. Six-thirty sharp. “Excuse me, sir.” Her voice came out of the darkness. She was walking toward him, and she emerged as though materializing before him like a phantom. “I didn’t see you coming. Don’t you have a flashlight?” “A torch, sir, yes. But not necessary now.” She did not want to be seen. That was a sign of her seriousness. And Audie summed her up quickly: she is meeting me secretly; she thinks she knows what I want; she is willing to coöperate. All this was obvious in her unwillingness to use a light. Artful, he thought, but even I don’t know what I want. “Your cell phone works pretty well on the hill.” “My mobile, sir. Guest Services provides. Sometimes we are on call for night treatments.” “Is that what this is?” Anna laughed, snuffling nervously. “I don’t know, sir.” “Where’s your flashlight, honey?” “Here, sir.” He groped for it, found her warm hand, took the flashlight, and switched it on, hoping that the light would drive away the smell. It seemed to work; as soon as he could see the stony path, he could breathe more easily. “Where are we going?” “My friend’s flat, sir.” “In the woods?” “Not woods, sir. Residential Civil Lines.” “Where do you live, Anna?” “Staff block, sir. Hostel, sir.” “You keep saying ‘sir.’ ” “Yes, sir,” and she giggled, her hand over her mouth. Audie was careful not to touch her, though she was walking just in front of him, on the steep downward path toward the glare of some sulfurous lights. He saw a three-story squarish building, the smell of rotting clothes lingering near it. “Is that it?” “It is, sir.” But he had stopped. He’d lost the momentum he’d had in the darkness on the path above. “In here, sir.” He took a step toward her. He reached and put his arm around her. She was tense. She seemed to quail, holding her face away from him yet presenting her hips. Her bare belly was soft like a cushion of bread dough in his hand. She was breathing hard. “Are you all right?” “Yes, sir. I am all right, sir.” He could tell that she was willing; he could also tell that she was terrified. “Let we go inside, sir?” Audie took a deep breath and, expelling it, slackened his grip on her. Aware that he was still holding her lightly, he became self-conscious and let go. He felt in his pocket for his wallet, which was fat with rupees, and without looking at the denominations—he carried only five-hundred-rupee notes—he took out a thickness of them and pressed them into her hand. “This is for you.” “Thank you, sir.” Not only did she accept the money, she seemed relieved. Her whole body relaxed. “You’re a good girl. I want you to stay that way.” “Thank you, sir. Bless you, sir.” She giggled a bit, and drew another deep breath as she watched him back away up the path. Beth was in the room when Audie returned. He was so sheepish from his errand that he did not notice how Beth held her book to shield her face—did not see her apprehension, he was himself so apprehensive. “I wasn’t very hungry,” he said. “I just had a snack.” “Love ya,” he said. Waiting in the woods, standing in the darkness had tired him; walking all that way down the path to the isolated apartment block had exhausted him, too. And he was ashamed of himself—of the power he had had over the girl. She had been afraid. He hated himself for having put her in that position, obviously hor-rified at the prospect of sex yet willing to sacrifice herself for the money. In his exhaustion, he fell asleep, his mouth open, his harsh breath rising and falling. He did not hear Beth slip out of her bed and dress quickly, did not hear the door click shut. Beth hurried to the stairwell, moving carefully, out the front door, past the porte cochere, and across the night-damp lawn to the grove of bamboos. Guided by the risen moon, she found the path to the laundry, and behind it the path to Hanuman Nagar. “Madam! Chowkidar, Madam.” The night watchman was on his feet, saluting with one hand, his flashlight in the other showing her the way. Everything seemed easier now that it was an exercise of her will and not a stumbling in the darkness. The downward path lit by the fluorescence of the moon seemed much shorter, and ahead the main street of the town was empty. Two or three men hunkered on their heels, warming their hands at a flaring brazier; some others she passed slept on the sagging rope beds they’d been squatting on earlier in the evening. The temple at the curve in the road was silent, just a few torches burning. She found the alley, stepped over the monsoon drain, smiled at the doorway where the little girl had been and was no more, and at the latched door in the whitewashed wall she tapped lightly. A murmur came from inside, a word—but not an English word. She was aware of the twitching of curtains at the window. Then the sliding of a rusty bolt, the now familiar smell of food. “Oh, thank you,” he said. They were up early for yoga, seated on their mats in the pavilion before anyone else arrived. Their eyes were closed, they were listening to the slight breeze brushing at the willows, the twitter of birds, distant voices, feeling—as Vikram urged every morning—the peaceful vibrations. Hearing “Namaskar,” they opened their eyes and saw that without their realizing it—for no one had spoken—the rest of the yoga class had gathered in the pavilion, eyes closed, waiting to begin. “This asana is good for blood circulation,” Vikram said. “For back. For bowels. Tadasana. Mountain.” As Beth elongated her body, reaching upward, her mind was travelling backward. Satish had held her tightly, even after she’d said, “I’m not going anywhere.” He was repeating, “Thank you, thank you,” and then he had led her somewhat roughly—perhaps it was just his impatience—to the corner of the room, onto the mat, and was pushing at her clothes and seeming to sob with urgency. She had been at a loss—had no idea what was expected of her, was relieved simply to allow him to lift her clothes, to stroke her body, was even prepared to say, “Take me.” But in his frenzy any talk was unnecessary. After fumbling with her clothes—it was as though he’d never touched buttons before—he’d snatched them off her and knelt to embrace her. She was surprised by his furious impatience. “And down for crocodile posture,” the yoga instructor was saying. He had lain upon her just like this, lengthwise, his whole weight pressing her, one knee forcing her legs apart. His jaw was clenched, he was fierce, his breath sucked between his teeth. “I am bad, I am vicious,” he said, still sucking his breath. “I love you.” She twisted under him, feeling the bumping of his hips, and wanted to say, It hurts. Afterward, he had said, “Sorry, Madam,” and rolled to the side, leaving her naked and unsatisfied and assaulted—chafed and subtly bruised. But when she looked over at him his hands were covering his face and she felt sorry for him in his shame. He had all at once deflated. At the door he had said, “What about present, Madam? Some few rupees?” The encounter—briefer than she’d expected, one-sided, like a humiliating shove or a mild spanking—had left her lucid and a bit rueful. It had not been an act of possession—more one of rejection. “Haven’t I just given you something?” she said. His voice going smoky and dark, he said, “I will see you tomorrow.” “Now, for rest, savasana,” Vikram said. “Corpse pose.” They breakfasted as usual, choosing the Indian option, filling their plates with beans and curried vegetables and yogurt while the waiters held the lids of the tureens open. Instead of becoming more familiar, friendlier, Indians became more formal, more solemn, like foot soldiers facing generals. Or was that just here at Agni? “As you wish, Madam,” one of the waiters said, bowing, in response to a request for more tea. “It is my pleasure,” another one said to Audie. “They make you feel important,” Audie said, yet he also sensed more distance than warmth in the politeness, and no one was smiling. “You going for a treatment?” “I think I’ll pass.” But Audie was eager—most of all eager to see what sort of reception he’d get from Anna, who owed him, he felt, unlimited gratitude. For hadn’t he let her off the hook? He wanted to experience her grateful hands. At the spa lobby, three of the staff, like male nurses in white uniforms, stood to attention as Audie approached. Audie smiled, thinking that if they had been wearing shoes instead of sandals their heels would have clicked. “I’m here for my treatment.” “Have you booked, sir?” “I’ll take anything you’ve got.” “Nothing available, sir.” What struck Audie was that the young man had not even glanced at the thick bound appointment book that lay open on the desk. “What do you mean, nothing?” “Nothing, sir.” He said, “Anna—is she free?” “Not here, sir.” “When will she get here?” “Not at all. Not employed here anymore, sir.” Only this one man had done the talking—stonewalling was more like it. Audie sensed that the other two were watching closely for his reaction, but he did not smile until he turned away, thinking, That’s it—take the money and run. Later in the morning, Beth, curious about the route she’d taken the previous night, proud of her initiative (two times down the path to Hanuman Nagar: when in her life had she ever struck out alone like that?), wandered through the bamboo grove and the trees above the laundry, just to see where she’d been. Pretending to admire the jasmine that edged the walk, she worked her way to the path and saw the raw wood of a new fence, with a gate crudely wired to it. “No entry, Madam.” A man in the khaki uniform of the grounds staff stepped from behind a bush to block her way. He held a shiny truncheon. “I was just looking.” “Needing chit for passage. Having chit, Madam?” “Who are you?” “Chowkidar, Madam.” “This fence wasn’t here yesterday.” “No, Madam. Put up today morning.” Testing him, she said, “What if I want to go to the laundry?” “Not available.” The man, still holding his truncheon, folded his arms over his chest. She could see that the watchman was adamant, that her arguing with him would only give him a greater victory, something he clearly relished. On her way back to the pool, rattled by the encounter, she passed the spa. Instead of the usual boy who received guests for treatments, she saw three men dressed in white, standing like sentries. Noticing her, one of them came to the door. “Yes, Madam?” Beth smiled. “Lovely day, isn’t it?” “You have booking for treatment?” He hadn’t smiled back. “Not today.” She peered behind him. “Is that Satish?” “No, Madam.” “You didn’t even turn around. How are you so sure?” “Satish is gone.” “What do you mean?” “Charge-sheeted, Madam.” She smiled again, as though she’d understood. “Actually, I was just going to the pool.” Gone? All she could think was that he had somehow slipped away; that he was guilty of some sort of theft. He had asked her for money. Perhaps, with money on his mind, he had stolen something from the spa strongbox. Some guests paid for their treatments in cash; she had seen the stacks of rupees. Over lunch, Audie and Beth sat hard-ly speaking, except to remark on the weather, the sun-flecked veranda, the flowering trees, the bolder birds raiding the leftovers at vacated tables. The waiters came and went, refilling the water glasses, using tongs to put warm naan into their basket, and finally slipping the check to be signed into a plastic wallet and placing it near Audie’s plate. There were some people eating on the veranda whom Beth and Audie had never seen before at lunchtime. The large table near the far rail, for example, was occupied by two men in suits and ties, looking out of place, one of them talking to the manager, a man with an unpronounceable name with whom Audie renewed their booking every week. When the waiter approached to pick up the signed lunch check, Audie put his hand over it to detain him. “Who’s that?” “Mr. Shah, sir. Owner of Agni, sir. And his managing partner. Also, as you know, Mr. Rajagolopalachari, manager.” Audie smiled in the direction of the owner, this Mr. Shah, businessman to businessman, wishing for eye contact. But the man was still speaking, waving his hands, tapping on the table with his gold ring for emphasis. “Another week, Tugar?” Audie said as they left the restaurant. They walked through the gardens and up the slope to the lobby of the main building to signal their intention to stay on. The clerk they spoke to stood up at his desk and faced them. “You must see the manager, sir.” “He’s at the restaurant,” Audie said. “Yes, sir.” “So what do we do?” “Come back later, sir.” They had a nap by the pool, in the shade of the overhanging trees, and at four, yawning, they made their way back up the slope. A man they had never seen before met them on the stairs of the main building, greeting them but also obstructing their way. “You’re not the manager,” Audie said. “Acting manager.” “Where’s the manager?” “He has been put on indefinite leave,” the man said. “How may I help you?” “It’s just, here we are again. We’re staying another week.” The man’s mouth tightened. He said, “Sorry, sir.” Audie said, “What do you mean?” “Fully booked, sir. From tomorrow, sir.” “We’ve been doing this week to week. We’ve never had a problem. You can fix us up.” Beth added, “We’ll take whatever you’ve got.” “Nothing available, sir.” The man had begun to smile, which made his intransigence all the more baffling. “The place is practically empty,” Audie said. “Departure tomorrow morning-time is eleven, sir. Bags will be picked up. Car will be waiting. Settle bill, sir. Paperwork, sir. All charges to date.” “You mean now?” “If you please.” Audie handed over his credit card, and then sat with Beth in the garden, listening to the musicians who were playing in an open pavilion. Above the music, they heard loud voices, scolding, possibly the owner’s voice—it was a tone they had never heard before at peaceful Agni. There were the sounds of scurrying, the whirr of golf carts coming and going, the important slamming of car doors. There was a suggestion of turbulence, turmoil, the sort of thing they’d seen in the lower world of Hanuman Nagar, but not here. “Someone’s getting his nose bitten off,” Audie said. “Glad it’s not me.” They skipped dinner and went to bed early—too early, perhaps, because neither of them could sleep. Beth kept seeing Satish’s toothy face saying, “I will see you tomorrow,” and now it sounded like a threat. Audie wondered what Anna was going to do with the money and regretted having given her so much. He had made that mistake before. They lay wakeful, face-saving in their separate beds, too chagrined to confide their feelings—yet they knew, without conferring, that they had been rebuffed. “Nothing available” was a lie, one of those obvious lies intended to humiliate you. Still, they were not so sorry to leave. It was India, after all, and they were headed home. The morning was smokier than usual. A haze hung over Agni, seeming to rise from the town. They had expected one of the white Mercedeses from the Agni fleet to be waiting at the entrance, but saw instead a tubby black Ambassador parked in the porte cochere. The car’s hood was secured with a piece of rope that dangled over the radiator grille. No driver in sight. They were used to a sendoff from luxury hotels. Please do come back and see us again. But here there was nothing. As Audie began to complain, he heard Beth say, “Hello, stranger,” in a grateful way. Dr. Nagaraj had approached the car and was opening doors for them. Now Audie noticed that the car had side curtains, a flourish that made it look older and somehow grubbier. “My vehicle,” Dr. Nagaraj said. “You’re taking us?” “Why not?” “Where’s the driver?” “Not available.” Yesterday’s lame excuse. And though Beth had already got into the back seat, Audie was puzzled. “I don’t get it. Why no drivers?” “They are lodging complaints about road conditions.” All these uncoöperative people and the sense of being banished made Audie cross; he showed it by seating himself next to Beth and slamming the door. “I will drive you to the airport for the first Mumbai flight,” Dr. Nagaraj said. They could see from the way he clutched the steering wheel and labored with his forearms that he was a terrible driver, stamping on the brake, thumping the clutch, and mashing the gears. Audie mumbled, “Grind me a pound.” “Anyway, what’s wrong with the road condition?” he said, louder. “Main road is closed,” Dr. Nagaraj said, riding the brake. “Blockage and stoppage. Rasta roko, we say.” “Is that unusual?” “It is usual. People are angry because of Hanuman temple. Muslim people. That is the snag. The blockage is on the main road.” “Which way will you go?” They were approaching the junction where the main road continued downhill and the road to Hanuman Nagar turned to the right, levelling off. “Just here. Cart Road.” Beth recognized the name. “That’s the road that goes past the temple. If there’s a mob there, won’t it be dangerous?” “I will guide you,” Dr. Nagaraj said. Audie smiled at Beth and said, “Tu-gar, you actually know the name of this road?” As he spoke, the road constricted and India seemed to shrivel around them, the stony slopes rushing up to the windows of the car, not just a pair of stray cows and the poorer shops at the edge of the town but a family of monkeys looking up from where they were picking through a garbage pile. This sense of walls closing in was made weirder by the absence of any people—not a single soul on a road that had been crowded with bikes and buses the last time they’d been on it, heading to the shahtoosh seller. “Where is everybody?” This empty road in India had the familiar desolation of a road in an absurd dream from which you woke up sweating. Dr. Nagaraj, snatching at the steering wheel, rounded a curve, slowing down. A multicolored barrier lay in the distance, a head-high barricade. No, it was a solid mass of men jammed together like a wall across the road. They were waving sticks, perhaps shouting, too, but there was no sound. The windows of the car were shut, and what the Blundens saw resembled the India they had seen from the car on their first day. But these men were bearded and angry, and the sunlight made it all much worse. “Turn around!” Audie shouted. Shocked into his own language, Dr. Nagaraj was yapping with fear. He slowed the car. He struggled with the steering wheel, attempting a U-turn. But the road was too narrow, and seeing that he could go no farther he began to jiggle the loose gearshift. When he looked back to reverse the car, his face was close to the Blundens, gleaming in terror. “Get us the hell out of here!” “Oh, God.” Dr. Nagaraj winced at the pock-pock of stones hitting the car, the sound on its metal as of teeth and claws. 
THE FIRST SENSE She has never felt any resentment that he became a musician and she didn’t. Could hardly call her amateur flute-playing a vocation. Envy? Only pride in the achievement that he was born for. She sits at a computer in a city-government office, earning, under pleasant enough conditions, a salary that has at least provided regularly for their basic needs, while his remuneration for the privilege of being a cellist in a symphony orchestra has been sometimes augmented by chamber-music engagements, sometimes not; in the summer, the off season for the orchestra, he is dependent on these performances on the side. Their social life is in his professional circle—fellow-musicians, music critics, aficionados whose connections insure them free tickets, and the musical families in which most of the orchestra members grew up, the piano-teacher or choir-singing mothers and church-organist fathers. When new acquaintances remember to give her the obligatory polite attention, with the question “What do you do?,” and she tells them, they clearly wonder what she and the cellist who is married to her have in common. As for her, she found when she was still an adolescent—the time for discovering parental limitations—that her cheerful father, with his sports shop and the beguiling heartiness that is a qualification for that business, and her mother, with her groupies exchanging talk of female reproductive maladies, from conception to menopause, did not have in their comprehension what it was that she wanted to do. A school outing at sixteen had taken her to a concert where she heard, coming out of a slim tube held to human lips, the call of the flute. Much later, she was able to identify the auditory memory as Mozart’s Flute Concerto No. 2 in D, K. 314. Meanwhile, attribution didn’t matter any more than the unknown name of a bird that sang heart-piercingly, hidden in her parents’ garden. The teacher who had arranged the cultural event was understanding enough to put the girl in touch with a musical youth group in the city. She babysat on weekends to pay for the hire of a flute, and began to attempt to learn how to produce with her own breath and fingers something of what she had heard. He was among the Youth Players. His instrument was the very antithesis of the flute. Part of the language of early attraction was a kind of repartee about this, showoff, slangy, childish. The sounds he drew from the overgrown violin between his knees: the complaining moo of a sick cow; the rasp of a blunt saw; a long fart. “Excuse me!” he would say, with a clownish lift of the eyebrows and a down-twisted mouth. His cello, like her flute, was a secondhand donation to the Players from the estate of some old man or woman that was of no interest to family descendants. He tended it in a sensuous way, which, if she had not been so young and innocent, she could have read as an augur of how his lovemaking would begin. Within a year, his exceptional talent had been recognized by the professional musicians who coached these young people voluntarily, and the cello was declared his, no longer on loan. They played together when alone, to amuse themselves and secretly imagine that they were already in concert performance, the low, powerful cadence coming from the golden-brown body of the cello making her flute voice sound, by contrast, more like that of a squeaking mouse than it would have heard solo. In time, she reached a certain level of minor accomplishment. He couldn’t lie to her. They had, with the complicity of his friends, found a place where they could make love—for her, the first time—and, out of commitment to a sincerity beyond their years, he couldn’t deceive her and let her suffer the disillusions of persisting with a career that was not open to her level of performance. Already she had been hurt, dismayed at being replaced by other young flautists when ensembles were chosen for public performances by “talented musicians of the future.” “You’ll still have the pleasure of playing the instrument you love best.” She would always remember what she said: “The cello is the instrument I love best.” They grew up enough to leave whatever they had been told was home, the parents. They worked as waiters in a restaurant; he gave music lessons in schools. They found a bachelor pad in the run-down part of town, where most whites were afraid to live because blacks had moved there since segregation was outlawed. In the generosity of their passionate happiness they had the expansive impossible need to share something of it—the intangible become tangible—bringing a young man who played pennywhistle kwela on the street corner up to their kitchen nook to have a real meal with them, rather than tossing small change into his cap. The white caretaker of the building objected vociferously. “You mad? You mad or what? Inviting blacks to rob and murder you. I can’t have it in the building.” She went to computer courses and became proficient. If you’re not an artist of some kind, or a doctor, a civil-rights lawyer, what other skill makes you of use in a developing country? Chosen, loved by the one you love—what would be more meaningful than being necessary to him in a practical sense as well, able to support his vocation, his achievements yours by proxy? “What do you do?” “Can’t you see? She makes fulfillment possible, for both of them.” Children: married more than a year, they discussed this, the supposedly natural progression in love. Postponed until next time. Next time, they reached the fact: as his unusual gifts began to bring engagements at music festivals abroad and opportunities to play with important—soon-to-be-famous—orchestras, it became clear that he could not be a father, home for the bedtime story every night, or for schoolboy soccer games, at the same time that he was a cellist, soon to have his name on CD labels. If she could get leave from her increasingly responsible job—not too difficult, on occasion—to accompany him, she would not be able to shelve that other responsibility, care of a baby. They made the choice of what they wanted: each other, within a single career. Let her mother and her teatime friends focus on the hazards of reproduction, contemplating their own navels. Let other men seek immortality in progeny; music has no limiting lifespan. An expert told them that the hand-me-down cello was at least seventy years old and the better for it. One month—when was it?—she found that she was pregnant; kept getting ready to tell him but didn’t. He was going on a concert tour in another part of the country, and by the time he came back there was nothing to tell. The process was legal, fortunately, under the new laws of the country, conveniently available at a clinic named for Marie Stopes, a past campaigner for women’s rights over their reproductive systems. Better not to have him—what? Even regretful. You know how men, no matter how rewarded with success, buoyant with the tide of applause, still feel they must prove themselves potent. (Where had she picked that up? Eavesdropping, as an adolescent, on tea parties.) She was so much part of the confraternity of orchestras. The rivalry among the players, drowned out by the exaltation of the music they created together. The gossip—because she was not one of them, both the men and the women trusted her with indiscretions that they wouldn’t risk with one another. And when he had differences with guest conductors from Bulgaria or Japan or God knows where, their egos as complex as the pronunciation of their names, his exasperation found relief, as he unburdened himself in bed of the podium dramas and moved on to the haven of lovemaking. If she was in a low mood—the -bungles of an inefficient colleague at work, or her father’s “heart condition” and her mother’s long complaints over the telephone about his disobeying doctor’s orders with his whiskey-swilling golfers—the cello would join them in the bedroom and he’d play for her. Sometimes until she fell asleep to the low tender tones of what had become his voice, to her, the voice of that big curved instrument, its softly buffed surface and graceful bulk held close against his body, sharing the intimacy that was hers. At concerts, when his solo part came, she did not realize that she was smiling in recognition, that this was a voice she would have recognized anywhere, among other cellists bowing other instruments. Each year, the music critics granted, he played better. Exceeded himself. When distinguished musicians came for the symphony and opera season, it was appropriate that he and she should entertain them at the house, far from the pad they’d once dossed down in. Where others might have kept a special piece of furniture, some inheritance, there stood in the living room, retired, the cello he’d learned to play on loan. He now owned a Guadagnini, a mid-eighteenth-century cello, found for him by a dealer in Prague. He had been hesitant. How could he spend such a fortune? But she was taken aback, indignant, as if someone had already dared to remark on his presumptuous extravagance. “An artist doesn’t care for material possessions as such. You’re not buying a Mercedes, a yacht!” He had bought a voice of incomparable beauty, somehow human, though of a subtlety and depth—moving from the sonority of an organ to the faintest stir of silences—that no human voice could produce. He admitted—as if telling himself in confidence, as much as her—that this instrument roused in him skilled responses that he hadn’t known he had. In the company of guests whose life was music, as was his, he was as generous as a pop singer responding to fans. He’d bring out the precious presence in its black reliquary, free it, and settle himself to play among the buffet plates and replenished wineglasses. If he’d had a few too many, he’d joke, taking her by the waist for a moment, “I’m just the wunderkind brought in to thump out ‘Für Elise’ on the piano,” and then he’d play so purely that the voice of the aristocratic cello, which she knew as well as she had that of the charity one, made all social exchange strangely trivial. But the musicians, entrepreneurs, and guests favored to be among them applauded, descended upon him, the husbands and gay men hunching his shoulders in their grasp, the women giving accolades, sometimes landing on his lips. It wasn’t unusual for one of the distinguished male guests—not the Japanese but especially the elderly German or Italian conductors—to make a pass at her. She knew that she was attractive enough, intelligent enough, musically and otherwise (even her buffet was good), for this to happen, but she was aware that it was really the bloom of being the outstandingly gifted cellist’s woman that motivated these advances. Imagine if the next time the celebrated cellist played under your baton in Strasbourg you were able to remark to another musician your own age, “And his wife’s pretty good, too, in bed.” Once the guests had gone, host and hostess laughed about the flirtatious attention, which he hadn’t failed to notice. The cello stood grandly against the wall in the bedroom. Burglaries were common in the suburbs, and there were knowledgeable gangs who looked not for TV sets and computers but for paintings and other valuable objects. Anyone who broke in would have to come into the bedroom to catch sight of the noble Guadagnini, and face the revolver kept under the pillow. Bach, Mozart, Hindemith, Cage, Stockhausen, and Glass were no longer regarded in the performance world patronizingly as music that blacks neither enjoyed nor understood. The national orchestra, which was his base—while his prestige meant that he could absent himself whenever he was invited to festivals or to join a string ensemble on tour—had a black trombonist and a young second violinist with African braids that fell about her ebony neck as she wielded her bow. She spoke German to a visiting Austrian conductor; she’d had a scholarship to study in Strasbourg. Professional musicians have always been a league of nations; for a time, the orchestra had a tympanist from Brazil. He became a special friend, and on occasion a live-in guest, who kept her company when the beautiful cello accompanied its player overseas. She was aware that, without a particular ability of her own, beyond an everyday competence in commercial communications, she was privileged enough to have an interesting life, and a remarkably talented man whose milieu was also hers. What was the phrase? She “saw the world,” often travelling with him. She had arranged a leave, to accompany the string ensemble to Berlin, for one of the many musical events in commemoration of the two-hundred-and-fiftieth anniversary of Mozart’s birth, but then couldn’t go after all, because her father was dying—cheerfully, but her mother had to be supported. The ensemble met with exceptional success, among musicians of high reputation from many countries. He brought back a folder full of press cuttings—a few in English—glowing. He tipped his head dismissively—perhaps you can become inured to praise, in time, or perhaps he was tired, drained by the demands of his music. She had suggestions for relaxation: a film, a dinner, away from concert-hall discipline, with the ensemble musicians; one becomes close to people—a special relationship that she had long recognized in him—with whom one has achieved something. He was not enthusiastic. “Next week, next week.” He took the revered cello out of its solitude in the case carved to its shape and played, to himself, to her—well, she was in the room those evenings. It is his voice, that glorious voice of his cello, saying something different, speaking not to her but to some other. He makes love to her. Isn’t that always the signal of return after he has been away? There’s a deliberation in the caresses. She is almost moved to say stupidly what they’ve never thought to say to each other: Do you still love me? He begins to absent himself from her at unexplained times or for obligations that he must know she knows don’t exist. The voice of the cello doesn’t lie. How to apply to the life of this man that shabby ordinary circumstance—what’s the phrase? He’s having an affair. Artists of any kind attract women. They sniff out some mysterious energy of devotion there, which will always be the rival of their own usually reliable powers of seduction. Something that will be kept from even the most desired woman. Who could know that attraction better than she? But, for her, that other, mysterious energy of devotion has now made of love a threesome. The cello with its curved body reverentially in the bedroom. What woman? At music festivals around the world, the same orchestral players, the same quartets and trios keep meeting. In different countries, they share a map of common experience, live in the same hotels, exchange discoveries of restaurants, complaints about concert-hall acoustics, and enthusiasm over audience response. If it were some musician encountered on a particular tour, that didn’t necessarily mean that the affair was a brief one, which had ended when the man and the woman went their separate ways, seas and continents apart; they might meet again, plan to, at the next festival, somewhere else in the world—Vienna, Jerusalem, Sydney—where he had played or was contracted to play soon. The stimulation not only of performance before an unknown audience but of meeting again, the excitement of being presented with the opportunity to continue something interrupted. Or was the woman nearer home? A member of the national orchestra in which he and his cello were star performers? That was an identification she found hard to look for, considering their company of friends in this way. A young woman, of course, a younger woman than herself. But wasn’t that just the inevitable decided at her mother’s tea-table forum? The clarinet player was in her late forties, endowed with fine breasts in décolleté and a delightful wit. There was often repartee between them, the clarinet and the cello, over drinks. The pianist, young with waist-length red-out-of-the-bottle hair, was a lesbian kept under strict guard by her woman. The third and last female musician in the orchestra was also the last whom one would be crass enough to think of: her name was Khomotso; she was the second violinist of extraordinary talent, one of the two black musicians. She was so young; she had given birth to an adored baby, who, for the first few months of life, had been brought to rehearsals in the car of Khomotso’s sister so that the mother could suckle the infant there. The director of the orchestra gave an interview to a Sunday newspaper about this, as an example of the orchestra’s adaptation to the human values of the new South Africa. The violinist was certainly the prettiest, the most desirable, of the women in whose company the cellist spent the intense part of his days and nights, but respect, his human feeling, would be stronger than sexual attraction, his identification with her as a musician would make distracting her from that taboo. As for him, wouldn’t it look like the old South Africa—a white man “taking advantage of” the precariously balanced life of a young black woman? His lover might also have been one of the faithful season-ticket holders who gave post-performance parties. He had a lunchtime friendship with one of the male regulars, an industrialist and amateur viola player with a fine music library, from which he was free to borrow. Or it might have been the wife of one of these men. Many of the wives were themselves career women, much younger than their wealthy husbands, bringing intelligence of a commitment to ideas and activities outside the arts, as well as what he might see as sexual availability. It was no longer assumed that she would go with him, as she always had, when he accepted invitations to receptions or private houses; the unspoken implication was that these were now strictly professional. He no longer suggested what had also been assumed—that when he was to give a recital in another city in their home country she would, of course, be there. He packed his overnight bag on their bed, took up the black-clad body of the cello, and kissed her goodbye. There were well-spaced acts of dutiful intercourse, as if it were as routine as a regular haircut. She began to want to avoid the approach in bed, and then grew fearful that she would send him to the other woman by suggesting that she did not desire him; at the same time, she wanted terribly to put her hands, her mouth on the body beside her, no matter the humiliation of the act, which he fulfilled like a medical procedure, prescribed to satisfy her. A bill to be paid. She waited for him to speak. About what had happened. To trust the long confidence between them. He never did. She did not ask, because she was also afraid that what had happened, once admitted, would be irrevocably real. One night, he got up in the dark, took the cello out of its bed, and played. She woke to the voice, saying something passionately angry in its deepest bass. Then there came the time when—was it possible, in his magnificent, exquisite playing?—there was a disharmony, the low notes dragging as if the cello were refusing him. Nights, weeks, the same. So. She knew that the affair was over. She felt a pull of sadness—for him. For herself, nothing. By never confronting him she had stunned herself. Soon he came to her again. The three of them—he, she, and the cello against the wall—were together. He made love better than ever remembered, caresses not known, more subtle, more anticipatory of what could be roused in her, what she was capable of feeling, needing. As if he’d had the experience of a different instrument to learn from. 
Tango L. Raymond Hoxey bought an old mansion in Livingston, Montana, and converted the third floor into a delightful apartment with views of several mountain ranges, including the Absarokas, the Bridgers, and the Crazies. The second floor kept his print collection in archival conditions, with humidifiers and air-quality equipment. The first floor was divided into two small, comfortable apartments, one of which housed his assistant, Tessa Larionov, and the other, in the summer, a textile historian, employed by the Metropolitan Museum in New York, who was also a trout fisherman. The year the historian died, I was still in premed and was painting houses to support myself; I moved into the vacated apartment. Acknowledging that there is a difference between being naïve and being innocent, I will say that I was entirely naïve back then. My parents lived only a few miles away, but we weren’t getting along, and I needed some distance, despite the fact that my mother was sick and often ranted about God. How was I to know that she was about to die? Like most people studying medicine, I planned to get rich, but I wasn’t rich yet; I was just a poor housepainter, out of work and hoping for something to come along, and, despite all other evidence, I feared that I would be one forever, packing a great wheel of color chips from one indifferent house to another. I don’t mean to suggest mild insecurity here: by any reasonable standard, I was losing my mind. Tessa Larionov was the daughter of a Russian engineer who had immigrated to the United States in 1953 and found his way to Choteau, Montana, where he set up business building bridges for the railroad. Tessa’s mother was not Russian; she may have been Italian. She had met Tessa’s father in New Jersey, when he first landed. Tessa was a powerfully built but attractive woman, with black hair, black eyes, and the look of a Tatar—humorous and a little dangerous. She was liked by everyone who knew her. Trained in library science, she had worked as an archivist at some very august places, including the Huntington, in San Marino, where she’d met her employer and our landlord, L. Raymond Hoxey, who had let her talk him into retiring to Montana with his rare-prints business, which she was now helping to run. Hoxey was eighty-one years old, and his arrangement with Tessa was really just a way of avoiding assisted living. She was very fond of him but had wanted to move home, and this arrangement worked for them both. Tessa was exactly thirty, still single, though she had enjoyed an active love life, leaving behind her only grateful hearts, or so she said. “They’re all still crazy about me—that’s why I left California,” she told me. Settling down was of no interest to her; the prints were her life, and she wanted to keep her eye on Hoxey. I was twenty, but she treated me as if I were even younger—a salute to my retarded behavior, I’m sure. My father was a pipe fitter for the Northern Pacific Railroad. (In the world of corporate takeovers, the railroad had actually changed its name several times, but Northern Pacific was the one that stayed in all our minds: it meant something; “Burlington Northern” meant nothing.) My mother was a hairdresser and, because of her big mouth, she had enemies all over southwest Montana and very few customers. As an only child, I was all but homeschooled, driven back and forth between our house and the less fashionable grade school in the area, then the local high school, where I was anonymous, never having been allowed, by my overprotective mother, to learn a sport. But I liked to fish. I’d fish anywhere there was water; I fished in a lot of ditches where there was no hope of success. I commuted to college and lived like a monk, on a small scholarship. I now understand that I was a weirdly underdeveloped human being for my age, ripe for just the sort of encounter that I had with Tessa Larionov. Even my mother noticed my immaturity; she was always telling me, “Stop staring at people!” It was Hoxey whom I got to know first. The day I arranged to rent from him, he happened to have received several Reginald Marsh prints, of which he was very proud. I acted as if I’d heard of Reginald Marsh. I didn’t know one painter from another, but I had a hunger for this sort of information—I was sure that it would be useful later, when I was rich. Hoxey was a pleasant old man who must have once been very fat, because he had loose flesh hanging from him everywhere and as many as seven chins. I always tried to count them while he was speaking to me, but then something in his remarks would break my concentration. This physicality, which bespoke a lifetime of phlegmatic living, gave his discourse on prints the authority that a weathered desert rat would have if he told you about cactus. I remember Hoxey carefully unpacking one of the prints—a kind of crazy thing with blank-faced people swarming in and out of doorways, no one reacting to anyone else. He said that it was the calmest Reginald Marsh he’d ever seen. “No ‘Moonlight and Pretzels’ in this one!” he cried. I could see both that he’d be an agreeable landlord and that many health issues lay before him. As a medical student, I could make a little game of guessing which one would kill him. A few days after I moved in, Tessa asked me over for drinks. She had done a beautiful job of making her apartment habitable, with old, comfortable furniture that she’d bought cheap and re-covered. She also had a good many of Hoxey’s prints on loan, though, as she explained, she was really just providing storage for them, because her collection changed as things were sold. She made a little face when she told me that she couldn’t afford to get attached to any of the prints, a particular trial for her as she loved the art of all nations. Cocktails and art, I thought—maybe I’ll get into her pants. I’m sure that I had a big goober smile on my face as I contemplated such an outcome. “Because I work upstairs, I’ve had to become a walker just to get outside,” she told me, as she mixed our drinks in a blender. “You start getting curious about different neighborhoods—where the railroaders lived, where the ranchers retired, where the doctors and bankers live. In the winter, when the wind starts up, I have to tie a scarf over my face. Anybody you see in the street is ducking for a building, kind of like in the Blitz.” As I listened, I found that I was leaning forward in my chair with my hands pressed between my knees. It was only when she stopped to look at me that I realized that my posture was strange. I pretended that I was just stretching and leaned back in an apparently casual but quite uncomfortable position. As Tessa came toward me with a brightly colored drink, it seemed as though both she and it were expanding, and when she handed me the glass I wasn’t sure that I was strong enough to hold it. I felt suddenly as if everything were bigger than me, as if I were in over my head, trying to handle the kind of situation that, when I was rich, I would take to like a duck to water. But things settled quickly once she sat down, and I was glad to have the drink because I felt a bit cotton-mouthed. I had gone from my first impulse about getting into her pants to fearing that she’d try to get into mine. I’m not much of a drinker; water would have served as well. That summer I’d made an experimental jaunt into a local bar. I felt that I needed to learn to be more social. I struck up a conversation with a somber, middle-aged fellow in a rumpled suit. He looked so gloomy that I regaled him with what I felt were uplifting accounts of my struggles at school. He stared at me for a while, until I sensed that all the timing was going out of my conversation. Finally, he said, “Hey boss, I gotta go: you’re creeping me out.” “Now,” Tessa said, “let’s start at the beginning: what do you think being a doctor will do for you?” “I don’t know.” My answer came out so quickly she looked startled. She leaned back into the sofa—she was at one end, I at the other—with her elbow propped on the back of it and her fingers parting the hair on the side of her head. “You don’t know?” “I wish I did. Sorry.” I involuntarily sang out this last word. “No, that’s all right. That’s fine. If you don’t want to talk about it, I’m O.K. with that.” I didn’t share the image I had of myself: still dark-haired but with a graying mustache, marching up the gangplank of a yacht. I kept looking into my drink as if it were a teleprompter and I were the President of the United States. The colorful liquid seemed like something I had found and would have to turn in. I don’t know why I made people so uncomfortable. As a kind of icebreaker, I thought to ask her a question. “When people use the expression ‘Rest in peace,’ do you think they have some basis for saying it, or is it just wishful thinking?” I can’t imagine what made me think that she’d have the answer to this doleful conundrum. But surely my mother’s poor health was on my mind. “You mean, about the dead?” “Sure.” Tessa looked at me for a very long time before saying anything. “You know, let’s try this another time. Maybe it’s you, maybe it’s me, but at this point in time and space it’s just not happening.” I backed out of there like a crab. I felt sorry for Tessa; she’d probably have trouble sleeping after this weird visit from the new neighbor. I just didn’t know what to do about it—an apology from me would have made it all seem even weirder. Thereafter, we sometimes ran into each other in the hallway between our apartments, and things did not get any less awkward. I made increasingly maladroit attempts to be cordial, attempts that were received with growing skepticism, even revulsion. Finally, upon seeing me, Tessa would dart into her apartment and slam her door. What was strange is that if I lingered in the hallway after she’d gone inside, I always, moments later, heard her phone ring. Once she said to me, “I know you’re tracking my movements.” And another time, “Don’t think you’re fooling me.” And another, a cry: “Please stop!” “Stop what?” A mirthless laugh followed and a slammed door. I made every effort to avoid these encounters. Indeed, I did start tracking her movements, in order to avoid her. She headed upstairs to work for Hoxey at exactly nine, out for the mail at ten-thirty, lunch with Hoxey in his apartment, catered by Mountain Foodstuff, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, out to lunch Tuesday and Thursday but always back by one-thirty, U.P.S. and FedEx and other outbound packages at four o’clock, and then her workday was over. On the weekends, I really didn’t have a pattern of her activities and nervously came and went from my apartment. When she had men over, they seemed to linger around my door as if they were on the lookout for me. One afternoon, a strapping man positioned himself as though to actually block my way. I gave him a big smile and pushed past. He smelled like motor oil. He said, “Hello, Doc.” Tessa must have told him that I was in premed. I said hello. I was glad to get inside and, when I looked through the little spy hole in the door, I was looking into his ear. Concentrating on the help-wanted ads calmed me down. I had discovered that I needed to look for work in other towns, as people in Livingston knew who I was and—this really is very funny—held my studies against me. “You can’t paint my house,” Mrs. Talliafero said. “You’re going to be a doctor!” “Not necessarily!” I said in my warmest tone, while hers cooled markedly. I have no idea why I answered her that way. I was sure that I was going to be a doctor, but when I was under pressure to make conversation it was as if all my life plans had gone up in smoke. I kept studying the paper. I recognized the real opportunities that exist for those who wish to sell cars or apply siding, but the trouble I was having with my communication skills made me fear that those occupations might not be my line. I really thought that once I got my timing back—and it was a timing issue—I’d be able to look into a different set of prospects. I was very much focussed on my chances of being unexceptional; if I had any opportunity to keep my head down, I meant to take it. I got a job working for a very nice guy, or so I thought, named Dan Crusoe. He was an attorney in Billings, who specialized in whiplash and owned a cute little turn-of-the-century cottage in Harlowton, which he used as a weekend place—or, rather, somewhere to vacation with his secretary, who did not enjoy the same legal standing as his wife. “Lawyers like me make doctors leave the profession every day!” he joked. “Stick to painting houses.” But he was an amiable fellow with a big laugh that led one’s attention away from his shrewd, close-set eyes. His dark curls were so uniform and regular they suggested the work of a beautician. When I asked him if they were natural, he told me to mind my own business with such vehemence that I actually jumped back. The previous owner of his cottage had used stolen Forest Service paint for the trim and shutters, and Dan wanted it all yellow, “like sunshine, get it?” I was rehearsing what I thought to be the appropriate style for my current position when I said, “No problema,” but Dan seemed to detect some awkwardness in my delivery, for his eyes grew narrow and he just said, “Right.” I rented a pressure washer, masked everything, used a quality primer, and picked my weather for the final coat. The house looked much better, but Crusoe never responded to the bill I sent, nor to the second or the third. Live and learn. I wasn’t much interested in exploring my remedies, and, since other revenues were unassured, I sold my car and went on a grocery binge. Also, to celebrate my first two months in the apartment, I bought a bed and put it out in the middle of the living room, where I could luxuriate in all that space and gaze east, west, and south, but not north, out of fine windows that were better than any painting, in that they were full of those moving, changing parts called “Life.” One morning, I heard a timid knock on my door and called, “Enter!” I was stretched out on my new bed in my shorts, reading a newspaper I’d found in the doorway to the bank, when I learned that my visitor was the chief of police. I was really pleased to see him, so pleased that I easily set aside my worries about the reason for his visit. I suppose that I was lonely. In a decent society, the chief of police is the one stranger you should be able to welcome into your home without reservation. But the first thing he told me was that I’d better get dressed, as I was going to jail. He gazed at me with sad knowingness. He had a big, warm face; it shouldn’t be misunderstood if I state that he looked like Porky Pig, with all that guileless amiability, the same pink complexion. “Tessa Larionov”—he gestured with his head in the direction of Tessa’s door—“has charged you with making obscene phone calls to her.” “Oh?” I said. “I don’t have a phone.” For one miraculous moment, there were people passing all three windows and the chief remarked that I needed curtains. “How bad were these calls supposed to be?” I tried to picture myself as the twisted man dialling her number. In a weird way, it seemed plausible. “They were not nice.” It comes as a great surprise to anyone who spends some time in jail in a small town that it is a remarkably stress-free environment. If your reputation is of no concern, your troubles are behind you. The Livingston jail was as good a place as any in which to unravel all the causes for the state I was in. In a rare moment of lucidity, I suggested a wiretap. The chief didn’t take my idea seriously, but the next day was a new day because Tessa informed him that the calls had continued while I was in jail and the wiretap came into play after all. It soon paid off. Hoxey had been making the calls. Tessa declined to press charges and it all went down as a lovers’ quarrel, once you swallowed the fifty-one-year difference in their ages. Tessa’s routine remained the same, except that her phone no longer rang so much after her workday was done. I finally ran into her in the hallway one afternoon, just as she was coming down with the packages. She stopped in her tracks, arms loaded, and regarded me quizzically. “Hello,” she said. I waited before replying. I wanted her to think about what she had done to me. But she didn’t seem worried, and the longer I waited the less worried she looked. “Hello,” I said. “You look like you’ve been painting.” “Yes, I’ve been painting a house.” “Here in town?” “Yes, a doctor’s house on Third.” “How funny. But you’re going to be a doctor.” “Yes, I’m going to be a doctor.” “I don’t suppose we’ll ever get to the bottom of that.” “No, probably not.” “If you were sick, would you go to a doctor, or treat yourself?” “Oh, I’d go to a doctor. I’m not a doctor yet.” “I mean if you already were… . Oh, never mind. Can you help me with these?” We took the packages to the post office and I stood outside on the steps while she shipped them. I watched a grackle walk between parked cars, one of which had an American flag on its antenna. A strong young man was wheeling a cart of pies into the back of a restaurant. He looked too powerful to wheel pies. My mother drove past, blowing her horn and revealing her colossal agitation through the windshield. People in town enjoyed such scenes. Once Tessa had sent the packages, she commended me for having taken the jailing episode with such good grace. I told her that I didn’t know how I could have done otherwise, which she mistook for some form of courtesy. I used both speech and body language to indicate that I mostly understood, and that what I didn’t understand I forgave. I had been brought up to believe that time delivers our dreams and quietly carries our nightmares away, and that most of what lies before us is welcoming and serene. This was part of the strange but cozy world of my home, with God in the role of Mr. Goodwrench. Or, at least, that’s how I looked at it, peering out from the cocoon of my oddly sheltered Pentecostal household, where the only thing I had to worry about was the flames of eternal damnation, which didn’t seem like all that much. I saw Satan as just another person who could be bought after my career took off. My mother was always telling me how deceitful the devil was, but that only made me feel that I could handle him. Tessa soon took charge of my life, and she decided that it would be good if we were to do something together, just for fun. “Mr. Hoxey feels terrible about all that has happened,” she said. “He wants to treat us to a night on the town.” That Friday, we signed up for a tango lesson. Tessa and I and six other couples entered the Elks Hall, with its terrible acoustics and all-consuming clamminess. We were conventionally dressed; I wore a secondhand sports coat and wide tie, Tessa a black sheath that struggled to control her well-muscled shape. The others were more South American in style—hot-red lipstick on their small-town faces, tortoiseshell combs in their swept-back hair. Some of the men had gone with a pomaded look that betrayed their sense of mission. They seemed to smolder in anticipation of their future proficiency. Our instructor was Juan Dulce, or just “Dulce,” a genuine Argentine who worked his way around the American West giving lessons. He had created a real interest in the tango in the most unlikely places—cow towns, oil towns, uranium towns, coal towns—where this hint of another kind of life carried a special allure. He was perhaps sixty, as thin as a herring, and wore striped pants, a formal black coat, a ruby cravat, and stacked heels. His hair, slicked to his skull, emphasized eyes that seemed to belong to a marine creature of some sort. He was without humor and he effectively conveyed the sacredness of his task. I doubt that I shall forget the sight of him standing on a Pepsi crate and pouring out his introduction in a deep and vibrant voice that seemed to make the room hum. “When I am fifteen in Buenos Aires I am longing for love and suffering and, above all, success—the hope of becoming a legend of our hot and drowsy tango. I underwent numberless deprivations, but success would reward the sensual designs that I displayed in many venues. Now the money I earn is exchanged for my fatigue, but I have no other way to go, and there are days I awaken upon wretchedness. Once I converted my dancing of three weeks’ duration by a pocket ruler into three hundred seventy-two kilometres. Still, tango is all! Without tango my face inspires doubt. Therefore, my advice is, press your tango to great advantage! And now we begin.” He turned on the big sound system, which had hitherto been employed to enlarge the voices of prairie politicians bent on higher office and nostalgic Scandinavian chorales with cow horns on their heads. The system had astounding capacity, and the room was soon filled with the somber, inevitable cadences of this prelude to intercourse. (As a student, I had not only enjoyed several instances of copulation—albeit with Mr. Goodwrench staring down at me—I had seen the act explained on huge blackboards, so that there could be no doubt about what was going on.) We began to learn the steps, in the chest-to-chest Argentine style. We arrayed ourselves counterclockwise and concentrated on the spacing between us and the other dancers. My exhilaration at Tessa’s great power soon gave way to apprehension, as though I were riding an unruly horse; and, when I failed to comprehend the crossover steps as described by Dulce, Tessa used her might to drag me into position with a determined expression on her face. To avoid potential humiliation, I attached myself to her flying carcass with a wiry grasp. Her cry of alarm brought Dulce to our side and the other dancers to a stop just as I was beginning to enjoy myself. “Señor! Grappling has no place in our national dance!” “I cannot follow her movements,” I explained in an accent identical to Dulce’s, which I found unexpectedly infectious. “You are not to follow—you are to lead!” “It’s my fault,” Tessa said. “I lost patience with him during the first abrazo. He just seemed lost. I’ll try to do better.” “Perhaps this is the time to work on our syncopation,” Dulce said sternly to both of us, “with greater respect for the movements of each other.” “The music is unfamiliar,” I explained. “You don’t happen to know ‘La Bamba’?” He held his head and moaned as though he’d been shot. The other couples had deftly caught on to the oddly triangular chests-together, feet-apart position. An older pair of bottle blonds, obviously trained in various kinds of ballroom dancing, made an effort to dance past at close range. The woman had a fixed and toothy Rockettes smile, and when she swept by she caught my eye and called out, “Piece of cake!” I gave Dulce my word that I would syncopate respectfully, and I began to dance in earnest. At first, Tessa complimented me on my “good hustle,” but she soon proved unequal to my speed and dexterity. Whatever had been going on in my life up to that point poured into my tango, and the exultation I began to experience was interrupted only when Tessa let out a real showstopper of a screech. Then Dulce came between us and made the mistake of laying hands on me. Insofar as I retained a modicum of male pride, this contact quickly devolved into a dusty floor battle, oddly accompanied by the raucous music of Argentina and the sounds of angry interference from the other students. With their help, I was flung into the street. “Good night, doctor!” I realized that Tessa had told the others that I was already out of medical school and that she was no cradle robber. I recall feeling breathless and completely without direction as I allowed Tessa to take charge of our stroll. She stopped momentarily, between two old commercial buildings, not far from the railroad yard, looked straight at me, and said, “Boo. Hiss.” We went on. “I’m lucky you didn’t request Mannheim Steamroller,” she added. I was defeated. “Now, don’t be offended and, more important, don’t walk in front of that car,” she said. “I realize you aren’t attracted to me, are you?” “That’s not the real story,” I replied. “I need encouragement.” These two sentences were uttered with such sincerity that I could see Tessa respond with visible happiness. “Then let me tell you my own fears. Why? Because you’re adorable. Of course you’re a complete idiot but, within that, there is a certain appeal—I’ve felt it before in pet shops. But I have fears, too. Isn’t that real friendship, to tell someone your fears? You could have been extremely disagreeable over those phone calls.” “What good would it have done?” “None, but few people would have recognized that. I sense that you have a good heart, a good heart trapped in a self that is a hop, skip, and jump from kiddie day care. Obscene phone calls from a stranger are intolerable. But when they come from someone you know, particularly a deluded old walrus like Hoxey, well, they don’t arouse quite the same wrath. You had the right to revenge and you declined to take it. Hoxey and I are in your debt.” I had a strong glimpse here of the sensible side of Tessa, and I had a sudden hunch that she would end up a friend, which rather worried me because she was the sort who might anchor me and teach me to accept reality, such as it was then emerging. “How about you just walk me home?” she said finally. “That work for you?” “Of course.” We paused at the railroad tracks to watch a big northern express rip through. She watched intently and I positioned myself behind her in such a way that it looked as if the train were pouring in one of her ears and out the other. I knew then that I would kiss her. I suppose it took ten minutes for us to get back to the house, during which time Tessa did her level best to tell me her hopes and dreams, which were honest and simple: ride old man Hoxey into the ground and clean out his estate. That wasn’t how she put it, naturally. Her concern, as she expressed it, was a passion for aesthetic rarities. “No one knows the inventory as I do. No one cares as I do, and no one knows the importance of getting it into strong and caring hands as much as I do.” I didn’t say anything, and I suppose she took my silence as censorious. We entered her apartment. Before pulling the door closed behind her, she said, “At the end of the day, it is what it is.” I wondered what that meant. Of course it is what it is, and it didn’t even have to be the end of the day to be what it was. I couldn’t understand this sort of thing at all, and in a way kissing someone who said things like that was like kissing air. When I did, it was with the kind of apprehension one feels on placing an open mousetrap in a promising location. Afterward, she held me at arm’s length and looked at me with what one of my professors had called the copulatory gaze. She seemed all-consuming. I thought of the big-bang theory, wherein a tiny speck of matter and energy mysteriously explodes, expanding the universe. I said, “What do you think?” My heart pounded. She said, “Let’s give it a whirl.” We made love on the couch. I performed in a state of amazement at all that skin. Skin everywhere! At one point, she said, “I wonder if you could change your expression. I can barely do this.” When I reached that moment to which all our nature ascends and when the future of the species is assured by spasm after spasm, she remarked, “Never a dull moment.” Over the eight years that followed, as I made my way through medical school and graduated, I’d occasionally see Tessa going about the affairs of Hoxey. She had acquired a questionable reputation around town by then, as he was now sick and demented, and she was seen as exploiting him. Then Hoxey died and whatever worries I might have had for her were briefly allayed, as it seemed that she had inherited the business. She made an appointment to see me at the clinic. I had forgotten just how large and burningly vital she was. Her hair, piled atop her head and held there by a bright-red plastic comb, seemed to represent fulminating energy. She had a white streak, which she attributed to “trauma.” “The henchmen of Hoxey have turned me into the street,” she told me, “leaving me with little more than the clothes on my back.” “Tessa, I find this very hard to picture.” “Perhaps a few prints, a watercolor or two.” “Who exactly are these ‘henchmen’?” “His children. Grown daughters. I never factored them in. They arrived on the scene like Valkyries hovering over the battlefield in search of corpses.” “I’m terribly sorry to hear this.” “At a difficult time in your life, Doctor, I offered you companionship and sexual healing.” “What can I do? Medication is my line, but I don’t think that’s what you’re looking for.” “I plan to stay here, and I’ll have to start looking for work. I hope you’ll recommend me.” I reached for a pen, poised to join the millions who have made their way out of a difficult situation by providing a letter of recommendation. But Tessa said, “Not now. I’ll let you know.” That, more or less, was the end of our appointment. She seemed happy with my response, taking my hand in both of hers. I suppose that she was just checking to see whether I was still on her side. Tessa went downhill fast. Within two years, she had spells of homelessness, punctuated by temporary jobs, none of which became permanent, because of her imperious nature, her contempt for owners and bosses. She never left a job—she stormed out of it. She took over the homes where she was briefly a guest. Even as her fortunes fell, Tessa didn’t lose her rakish airs, though they began to seem just a bit automatic, as she strode around town in worn clothes. I was one of several people who helped in small ways, but I rarely saw Tessa. By this time, I had established the small-town practice that would not make me rich, though it might make me happy. Hoxey had long ago returned to California in powder form, leaving nothing behind him. Those years seemed to have allowed me to awaken from my own background and, without boasting, I can say that I had become somewhat less of a fool, though I was constantly aware that my foolishness could come back at any time, like a virus that lies dormant at the base of the spine. I can’t say that I saw Tessa as my responsibility; nor can I claim to have quite got her out of my mind. The December night that I was celebrating my fortieth birthday with a cake in the emergency room, an ambulance arrived with Tessa: into her abdomen she had plunged a serrated bread knife, an item she continued to clutch on the gurney that conveyed her. I took it from her hand and, feeling on me the heat of her eyes, I quickly began dealing with her wound. I knew that if she were admitted to the clinic itself she would be subjected to what I viewed as diagnostic imprudences—laparotomy and other explorations, which experience had caused me to associate with increased morbidity. Though I would later have a chance to review these judgments, I honestly feel that they didn’t alter the way things turned out. In effect, I was keeping Tessa to myself. I had hoped that this was only a cry-for-help injury—the timing, during my shift, aroused my suspicions—but the knife, it turned out, had pierced the skin, the subcutaneous layer, the linea alba, and the peritoneum, and I could only hope that it had gone no further; that is, into the viscera. Over the next four days, attending Tessa around the clock while she stared at me without speaking, I failed to contain the major spillage, the uncontrolled peritoneal contamination, the necrosis, and an infection that laughed off antibiotics in a general cascade. She was looking right through me when she slipped away. Aren’t there things that your parents should tell you? After my mother died, I’d gone to my childhood house and found her reading glasses. I’d sat on our old sofa by the window overlooking a stunted row of odorless roses, still knowing, after all those years, which part of the sofa I could sit on without feeling the springs. I put my mother’s glasses on. The earpieces were too short for me, and I had to press them down on my nose uncomfortably. It didn’t matter: I could barely see through them. 
A River in Egypt The hot air in the sweat chamber—as the nurse had called it, ushering them in—was humidified to make it even more uncomfortable, and when he loosened his tie he was reminded that he was the type who felt it necessary to dress up for hospital visits, and for air flights, not so much because he had a residual primness left over from his Midwestern upbringing, which he did, but because he felt that he might receive more attentive service if he came dressed with a certain formality, so that the nurses and doctors tending his son might see him, Cavanaugh, as a big-shot banker instead of as an assistant art director who was known, if he was known at all, for his last-minute design fixes. For example, he had once turned the interior of a hotel lobby—one of the last of the classic (now defunct) S.R.O.s in midtown, the Abe Lincoln, just off Twenty-eighth and Madison—into a Victorian salon by throwing a few bolts of velvet around the windows of the downstairs smoking lobby. Just that morning, as he was leaving for the hospital, the director, Harrison, had called to let him know that he was being dropped from “Draconian,” a big-budget sci-fi production that included a huge political convention scene, filmed in an old dirigible hangar out on Long Island—a design job that had drawn upon his expertise in plastic sheeting, banners preprinted with mock structural details, and so forth. “It’s not that we don’t like your work,” Harrison had said. “You’ve got fine, visionary abilities. You see things others miss. But maybe you see too much. The problem with your design was—and I don’t know how to put this—it was too real, too clear. You know where I’m coming from? One wrong move cinematographically and you’re lost in the future, or lodged too far in the past. We made one wrong move, and I don’t want to make another. I’m not casting blame. I’m apportioning fault. If I don’t do it, the audience will. You see, my hope is to keep the film, for all its futuristic overtones, closely rooted in the present moment, and that way, as I see it, the audience will feel connected to contemporary experience in a way that will allow the obvious eternal elements”—Harrison was apparently referring to the assassination attempt, and to the corrupt, smooth-talking monomaniacal presidential candidate who was secretly implanting electronic doohickeys into his opponents’ temples in order to create a network of paranoid, deranged sap-souls, as he put it—“to resonate fully not only with current audiences but also with future audiences. So the trick to fostering believability lies in tweaking the extremely fine fissure between the known present and the unknowable future. If it’s tweaked correctly, even years from now an audience will ignore the errors and focus only on the viable world that had once really existed, and still exists, in all human interaction.” Cavanaugh pondered all of the above—along with images from the drive that morning over the Tappan Zee Bridge and the beauty the river had held, stretching toward Tarrytown, rippled with tight wavelets, shimmering blue under a pristine sky—as he held his son, Gunner, in the sweat chamber, talked to him, got him settled, and gave him his toys, extracting them one at a time from an old green rucksack. These toys had been put aside for a few days so that they might accrue some elemental newness again and, in turn, give more in the way of pleasure. (“There are enough old toys to keep him busy,” Sharon had insisted. “I can’t charge another toy on the card, and I think we should build up his desire so that when Christmas comes there’s not another huge letdown like there was last year. Case in point: you bought him that Gobberblaster Gun last summer, which was totally inappropriate for a kid his age and might’ve been a perfect gift for Christmas a couple of years from now, and he went out and shot it a few times, and now it’s in the back of the closet like all his other junked toys.”) That fight about buying Gunner some new toys for the test, he thought, dabbing the sweat from his brow onto his cuff, had really been spurred on by the fact that Sharon was now back in practice, commuting into the city to scrounge clients, and taking on a disproportionate number of pro-bono cases, as if to keep the financial burden firmly on his side of the ledger, because she felt—and he knew this from their ten years together—that pressure was good for him artistically, and that he’d find the strength to break through to the big time only if he pushed against the weight of their monetary need. So he extracted one toy at a time and watched as Gunner went to the floor, tinkered and fussed and depleted each quickly, and in less than ten minutes had already gone through the Emergency Tow Truck and something called the Question Cube after two lame questions: What river is in Egypt? The Nile? The Hudson? The Thames? or The Kalamazoo? And then: Who said: Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar? Groucho Marx? William Shakespeare? Sigmund Freud? or King Edward? before the Question Cube gave a weak static snort and faded into silence, so that little Gunner, who was really too young to know the correct answers, but who liked the sound of the toy’s artificial voice—a basso profundo—and got a thrill out of guessing, stood up and, with a grunt, gave it a hard kick. Then he went on to quickly sap the Zinger, a gravity-defying top that was said to have the ability—in correct conditions—to spin eternally, and his old favorite, Mad Hamlet, a strangely compelling action figure that went into suicidal fits when you pushed a button that was hidden on its back. Only ten minutes in the sweat chamber had gone by, and all Cavanaugh could do was wait a few beats while Gunner looked up, bright with anticipation, and then cried, “I’m hot, I’m hot, I’m hot, hot, hot.” At this point, stalling for time, Cavanaugh put the rucksack out of sight behind his back and waited a few more beats before pulling it out again, saying, “Hey, hey, look, another rucksack,” and shook it near the boy’s head until he stopped flailing around, looked up with his ruddy face (the kid had what the doctor called dermagraphic skin—highly sensitive, prone to rashes), and said, “Give me, give me.” At which point Cavanaugh unzipped the rucksack slowly, and said, “Let’s pretend it’s Christmas morning and we’re just up, having had our traditional morning cocoa and sweet roll”—Christmas was the one morning each year that they opened up the tightly packed dough, popping it against the counter and rolling out the spiral of cardboard foil—“and now Santa’s bringing some new presents,” and then, with great flourish, saying, “Ta-da,” he reached in and pulled out the Emergency Tow Truck again, squat and malformed, with a thick front bumper, holding it out and watching as Gunner’s face composed itself around a cry, restrained itself for a second, his tiny mouth a tight rictus of pink next to which his cheeks bunched to reveal a remnant of his original baby face—womb-wet with sweat, blue with blood, and dramatically horrific. Cavanaugh searched the boy’s face the way a sailor might read the twilight sky, and saw clearly that he was about to unfurl a squall-cry, a true record breaker on the scream scale. And he did. When it came, it was a squawking, ducklike sound, odd in its guttural overtones, yet paradoxically bright, shiny, and thin, like a drawn thread of hot glass. This was a cry that said: You led me to believe, fully and completely, that I was about to receive a newborn toy, something that would match my deepest expectations. This was a cry that rent open the universe and, in doing so, peeled back and exposed some soft, vulnerable tissue in Cavanaugh’s brain. So that what he did next was, he thought later, simply an act of self-protection, reaching out and yanking the boy onto his feet and into one arm and then, with the cup of his hand, sealing the kid’s mouth shut, so that all Cavanaugh felt was the small, frail puffs against his palm as he spoke down into the hot, sweaty bloom of struggling face, saying, “Jesus Christ, Daddy was just playing a game, a Christmas game. Daddy was just trying to lighten the situation and keep you from doing what you’re doing right now. Daddy just wants his Gunner to behave himself, if not for the sake of the nurses—who, I’m sure, are out in the hall about to bust in here to see what’s going on—then for Daddy himself, who is at his wits’ end and wants this test to go as smoothly as possible.” At which point, as if on cue, the door opened, bringing in fresh air that smelled of disinfectant and hospital floor polish, and a nurse, beautiful in her tight uniform, with long blond hair, who said, “Oh, dear,” and presented a face, he later thought, that was readable in an infinite number of ways—soft around the mouth, with a wry smile that just about verged on a frown, set in a snowy Nordic topography of bone structure. From the nose down, she seemed to be frank and non-judgmental, her mouth loose around unavailable words; from the nose up, her two intensely blue eyes, and a single raised eyebrow, seemed to be saying: Something funny’s going on here. Something’s not right. Something’s deeply wrong about the way you’re cupping the boy’s mouth in relation to the way he (the boy) is standing, in relation to the way you are looming behind him, in relation to the sheen of his terrified face, in relation to that cry I heard out in the hallway, which was so loud and shrill it penetrated the door and reached my ears. And then she tilted her face slightly to one side, glanced at the room (really nothing but two chairs and a heating unit lit with stark neon), and made a face that seemed to admit: Maybe for you, as a father, this is a trying test, though it’s certainly nothing compared with a bone-marrow biopsy, a spinal tap, or the claustrophobia of the MRI ring. But, yes (her face seemed to say), the analysis of the sweat in order to rule out, or to rule in, cystic fibrosis makes it oracular in nature, and in a few hours you, sir, will be offered up the results, and said results might give you a positive yes on the disease, which would mean, of course, that Gunner will face a future of hard breathing, clotted phlegm, and, most certainly, a relatively early death (in his thirties, if you’re lucky), but all this in no way excuses you, sir, from what appeared to be transpiring when I passed the door and heard the cries and stepped in to take a look. In response to what he seemed to be seeing in her facial expressions, Cavanaugh said, “We’re fine, just a little misunderstanding about the toy bag, the rucksack here, regarding Christmas, pretending it’s Christmas, trying to keep him calm. I mean to say,” he said, as he fingered the dimple on his tie, “I was trying to recharge these toys, so to speak, to make them surprising again, you know, and Gunner became disappointed and began to cry. Not that crying isn’t normal in these circumstances.” Something stony seemed to enter the nurse’s features as she listened, taking another step into the room, nodding slightly, looking down at the boy and then up at Cavanaugh. Did her eyes narrow slightly? Was there a shift, barely perceptible, in the set of her teeth? Did some interrogative element enter her eyes, brightening the corneas? It seemed to him that she was thinking: We clearly have a situation here. To cup a boy’s mouth like that is wrong, sinful, actually, and just a precursor to more violent acts; God knows what’s going on behind closed doors. And it seemed to him that her face (and the way she moved up to Gunner and touched his head lightly, patting him, and then moved to adjust the collecting device) also said: I’ve seen a thousand such moments, entering rooms to witness patients adjusting their postures, ashamed, awkward around the impersonal equipment, awaiting test results that may change their future. I’ve entered rooms to find patients yanking out I.V. needles. I’ve opened the door to scenes of fornication, to urine-stained old men with pocked behinds. I’ve opened doors to couples enfolded in weeping embraces, so seized with grief that they had to be pried apart. I’ve opened doors to bald-headed children with angelic eyes and shattering smiles. But this is different because of the cry itself—the desperation and the tonal quality in relation (again) to your unusually guilty face, in relation (once again) to the boy’s self-protective, conspiratorial slack expression, as if he were hiding something, in relation (once again) to the position of the hand held over the mouth, in relation to the finger marks on the flesh around the mouth. Then her lips tightened and her cheekbones—yes, cheekbones!—seemed to sharpen, and her face seemed to say to Cavanaugh: I might have to report this to the resident social worker, just as a matter of protocol. Not because I’m absolutely certain that you struck the child but because I’m not certain, and if I don’t do it and further harm comes to this boy I’ll never forgive myself and I’ll sit forever down in my own particular hell. Then the nurse said, “Oh, you poor little boy. We’re a long way off from Christmas. But we’re not a long way off from finishing the test. You’re a brave boy. A brave, brave boy.” Woe to the man whose child is on the verge of a diagnosis, her face then seemed to say, as she ran her fingers along the tape, removed the electrode wires, cleaned Gunner’s arm with a gauze pad, secured the collecting device, checked the tubing, and then, without another word, heaved out of the chamber, latched the door, tested the seal, and glanced back through the oval window with a face that said: I understand that your game with the toys in the bag was creative and a sign that you’re a good father, if somewhat desperate, and then she was gone and he turned to Gunner and said, “Daddy got in trouble because you were crying. Daddy got scolded, not verbally, but facially, so let’s pretend again, and do the Christmas grab bag, but do it right this time and really pretend I’m Santa.” And he opened the bag and pulled out his trump card, a toy he had left out in the first rotation, one of Gunner’s all-time favorites, Weird Willy the Spasmodic Doll. When switched on, Weird Willy flexed and yawed spastically, like an injured athlete, and performed a ballet of crude movements while his internal mechanisms poked and prodded through his rubbery skin. The toy, seemingly crucified from within, proved agonizing to watch. Not long ago, back in August, Weird Willy had provided a full afternoon of entertainment in a patch of sunlight beneath the dining-room table. Gunner and Willy had spent a good hour conversing, Gunner saying softly, “Stop that, you stupid freak, you pathetic idiot, you stupid stupid.” Now, in the sweat chamber, Weird Willy said, “Haa wee, haa wee,” while Gunner said, “Die, die, die,” and wrung Willy’s torso with both hands, trying his best to tear him limb from limb. “And that was the end of Weird Willy, the end of the toys, and the end of my Christmas-morning scheme—as I think of it now,” Cavanaugh muttered to himself as he started home from the hospital, barely moving his lips over the words, imagining what he might say to his shrink, Dr. Brackett, at his next appointment. In the rearview mirror, Gunner, strapped into his safety seat, gave him a suspicious frown. Cavanaugh closed his lips and imagined saying, “When I’m with him, I’m always aware of the value timewise. I mean, in terms of using up time, of entertainment value, so to speak, of whatever catches his attention. Even when I’m not with him. For example, just a few months ago I was on location in California, working on ‘Draconian,’ and I was driving up the Pacific Coast Highway trying to solve a design problem. President Gleason, after his big defeat, goes off on his own for a few weeks to a cabin near Big Sur to ponder his past and begin writing his memoirs, because he sees himself—according to the script—as part of a great lineage of memoir writers stretching back to Ulysses S. Grant and, strangely, up to Jack Kerouac. “Anyway, I envisioned the scene as a Biblical moment that mirrored Jesus’ desert solitude. Something had to point away from the stereotypical writer gestures (Gleason leaning morosely over his laptop keyboard; Gleason flipping his pencil between his fingers, biting his lip, pacing the room; Gleason pouring himself a huge glass of Scotch and swirling it gently before he takes a drink) and direct the audience subtly to the deeper perplexities of his crestfallen state. So I designed chinks in the cabin’s mortar that, when lit from behind, shot small beams—or maybe you’d call them shafts—of light through the walls and the dust motes, forming crosses through which he might walk during one of his pacing-for-inspiration scenes. “In any case, I was driving up the coast, thinking about this problem, when I became acutely aware of the vista—the hard, purging waves roiling in, the whitecaps foaming far out, and the milky blue of the water—and it suddenly occurred to me that I could, with great precision, calculate the exact amount of time that Gunner would, if prompted (Hey, Gunner, take a look at that), examine each scene before turning away. I could decipher—is that the word?—the exact amount of entertainment value specific scenes on the coast would offer my boy. Waves slamming around hard, bountiful rocks, breaking in a dramatic foam, no matter how fantastically beautiful, would distract him for twenty-eight seconds. Sea lions—if we walked down to get a close look—would tap out at three minutes of distraction value. A frigate, viewed through a pair of field glasses? Five minutes and thirty seconds. A supertanker, not too far from shore, but in heavy surf—on the edge of trouble? Six good, solid minutes. (The field glasses would have to be new and never used before.) A frigate on fire? Seven, or possibly eight, minutes of attention. A supertanker engulfed in a raging inferno, belching a thick plume of fire? Nine. A sinking ship (with attendant oil spill and terror-stricken passengers waving frantically, some of them dashing across the deck, on fire)? Ten minutes. Albeit none of these calculations, no matter how accurate they might have felt, were really precise, because one had to go plus or minus twenty seconds on one side or the other to account for various other distractions (fiddling, scratching, eye rubbing, and snot blowing) that might cut into his attention span. “So you see, to get to the point, when I handed him Weird Willy I had the toy figured at less than a minute. What does any of it matter, his crying, so long as he sweats enough to fill the fucking testing device, I should’ve thought. I should’ve thought, I’m lucky that my son is just crying and not spazzing out, or giving me a much harder time. I’m lucky that he’s only being tested for this disease and hasn’t been handed a diagnosis: terminally ill, with only a few weeks, or a day, or even less, to live, for sure, and that this is still a wide-open thing,” he would tell Dr. Brackett, at his office in White Plains. Outside, down in the street, the traffic signals would be cheeping, making a sound meant to guide the blind, if there were any. In the four years that he’d been going over the bridge to visit Dr. Brackett, he had never seen a single blind soul using the audible signals to cross the street. The streets in White Plains were always dusty and forlorn, and somehow reminded him of a Western town just before a shootout; folks were hidden away, peeking out in anticipation of violence. Even up in the office he’d feel this—while hearing the cheeping sounds—and it would form a backdrop as Dr. Brackett, a small, lean, sharp-chinned man, placed his palms on his knees and leaned forward to say something like: “It is perfectly possible that you didn’t loosen the collecting device when you grappled with your son. After all, the nurse came in and adjusted it, didn’t she? You can’t be blamed for that. I’m sure it happens all the time. In any case, let’s focus on the wider theatrics of your parenting actions: Do you think you’re the first father to cup his son around the mouth? You’re a good man with a clean heart, not perfectly clean but clear (yes, a clear heart), and you had good intentions, and you were just at the end of your rope, and so you naturally felt frustrated and fearful—above all fearful, because what the test meant, most certainly, one way or another, was the central element/key/crux in the parental drama (let’s call it a drama, not a play). You were fending off, or, rather, delaying for as long as possible, the end result of the test, perhaps subconsciously. You were biding your time with Gunner, trying to fend off, if I may use that phrase again, his anxiety, or what you imagined was his anxiety, by inducing play, a certain level of play, presumably, not just using up time or trying to keep him calm, as you claim, but trying to keep the scene itself stable and quiet on some level, maybe thinking, as you tried, that, in doing so, you’d also somehow, and perhaps this is a long shot”—he would admit, because Dr. Brackett, as a shrink, liked to counter and undercut his own statements as a way of enlivening them, making them seem like organic, natural formations in order to assure his patient that he was just as human as the next guy and didn’t subscribe to the old formalities of Freudian methodology—“but perhaps you were also under the belief that, somehow, if you kept Gunner quiet and calm, the outcome of the test might be positively effected. Because you believed, I believe, that there were, and are, deeper factors at play—quantum/God/mystical, take your pick—and that if the test went smoothly the results were more likely to be negative. You felt, at that moment, in the sweat chamber, after the toys gave out, a sense that in the heat of the room, and in the sweat that was being exuded from Gunner’s body, fate was at hand, so to speak.” (Here Brackett would draw a couple of deep breaths.) “Now that you know that the results of that particular test were inconclusive because the collection device came loose and, in the end, not enough sweat was collected, you blame yourself for the fact that you’ve got to go back next week and again reopen that door to the question of his health, and that in doing so you must once again face the possibility that he has cystic fibrosis, and that your life will change again,” Brackett would say. “Now let’s backtrack a little. The nurse, who presumably has been through many of these moments with many other patients, most likely came into the so-called sweat chamber to offer assistance, to help you in one way or another, or to remove the electrodes, and in seeing your hand over Gunner’s mouth she understood your predicament and sympathized with it and with the boy’s predicament, too—perhaps your own more so than the boy’s—and at that moment she did not judge you as harshly as you’d like to think, but was actually waiting for you to speak, and in hearing your anger, when you did speak, and within it your deep, almost Jobian fear, felt her own helplessness before all the illness she has faced, as you were saying. Bald cancer heads, forlorn eyes, tears, kids suffering at the deepest level. Kids cheery and chipper against the saddest odds. Kids with that disjointed misunderstanding of their own place and status, not only healthwise but otherwise, too. Kids bucking themselves up heroically. Clearly, just going by the fact that you continue to mention what her Mona Lisa face seemed to be saying, almost obsessively, it seems to me, it becomes evident that you were turning to her as a soothsayer, and maybe that might mean, and here I propose this only as a theory, a useful one—perhaps, perhaps not—that she, too, felt herself to be unwillingly put into a shamanic position; no, let’s correct that and say an oracular mode. Let’s say she felt that her face might—from your point of view—be seen as an oracle, and let’s say that that might explain the strange expressions she presented, if they really were strange.” Cavanaugh imagined all of the above as he drove back over the Hudson while Gunner slept in the back seat with his head lolling to one side and his tiny mouth open around his own breath, and, down below, the river fretted with bits of white chop as the first hard wind of the fall drove down from the North and cut past Hook Mountain on its way to the city. As he drove, he began to cry, openly and with stifled guffaws, the way a man must cry when he is faced with the future, any future, a good one or a bad one, and after he has sat alone in a room with his child, waiting for sweat to collect so that he may know something about what is to come, some exactitude in the form of a diagnosis; he cried the way a man must cry when he’s driving, keeping both hands on the wheel and his eyes wide open through the blur, and he cried the way a man must cry when he is exhausted from being up deep into the night while his boy coughs up almost unbelievable quantities of phlegm, clearly succumbing to a disease process—as his doctor called it—that at that point was indeterminate; he cried for himself as much as for his son, and for the world that was unfolding to his left, an open vista, the gaping mouth of the river, which at that moment was flowing down to the sea, hurrying itself into the heart of New York Harbor. He was crying like a man on a bridge—suspended between two sides of life, trapped in the blunt symbolism of the spans, and atop the floating pylons that sustained the decks of reinforced concrete—while his son slept soundly, unburdened now, it seemed, when Cavanaugh looked back at him in the mirror, and afloat on his own slumber. Not at all sick, or diseased, and free from whatever torment the future might offer up. By the time (three minutes later) that Cavanaugh was exiting off the thruway and driving down Main Street (six minutes later), past the stately trees unfurling their fall brilliance, he had collected himself and was clear-eyed and in a new state. He wasn’t a man reborn at all. Not even close. That would come much later, after the second test, and when the results were in, conclusive and hard, no-nonsense in the statement they made. That would come (he imagined) when he gave himself over to the fact that salt moved chaotically in and out of certain cells, and that Gunner’s body would forever confront certain facts: mucus blockages in his lungs and pancreas, and frequent infections. But for now, as he entered the town on a beautiful fall day, the diagnosis was somewhere off in the remote future, and he was alive and dealing with the moment at hand, which included his own actions in the sweat room, and the failure of his set design for the convention scene, and he felt himself growing calm before the sweet presence in the back seat, which came to him in the form of a soft snore, a little clicking sound that accompanied each exhalation, and then, finally, a small groan as the car settled over the curb of the driveway (eight minutes later) and came to a stop, and then another slight sniff as his boy awoke (one minute later), roused by the silence, the lack of road noise, and opened his eyes and blinked, and then said, “Are we home? Are we home now, Dad?” 
Night Train to Frankfurt They were going to boil Dorothy’s blood. Take it out, heat it, put it back in. The cancer would be gone. Well, that wasn’t exactly it. The treatment had a more formal-sounding name, thermosomethingorother, a word that was both trustworthy (because you recognized the prefix) and lofty, so that you didn’t really question it, knew you were too thick to really understand whatever explanation might be given you. “They’re going to boil my blood” is what it came down to, and this was what Dorothy had told her daughter, Helen, when she called her from New York. There were statistics, affidavits. There was a four-color brochure from the clinic in Frankfurt, Germany, printed in three languages. As they waited for the train in the Munich station, Helen studied the pamphlet’s fonts and graphics. A frequent dupe of advertising herself—how many depilatories and night creams had she bought over the years, and at what expense?—Helen understood the significance behind the choice of peaceful, healing blue over charged, emotional red, the softening elegance of the italicized quotes from Adèle de Chavigny, a woman from Strasbourg who had not only survived having her blood boiled but had gone on to live a life of graceful transcendence. There were no concrete images of the clinic itself, no pictures of whatever this boiling machine might look like. Helen imagined huge vats like those in a brewery—wide, clear tubes with viscous, viral blood moving sluggishly in one direction, while bright, animated, healthy blood rushed eagerly back toward the patient. On the roof of the brewery, she imagined enormous chimneys expelling the sweet-sour-smelling residue of defeated disease into the air. Poof, poof, the smokestacks would go, and all the German townsfolk (yes, in her fantasy they were wearing lederhosen and small peaked caps) would look up, proud to know that, in their town, death had been conquered. “Fairy stories,” Dorothy would have said dismissively, had Helen shared such an idea with her, as she had so often as a child, forever irritating Dorothy with her impractical mind. Helen had been careful not to lob Dorothy’s criticism back at her when she’d announced this latest and most ridiculous plan to save her life. But Dorothy’s response to her own illness had been perversely uncharacteristic from the start. Most important, Helen realized, fingering the brochure again once they were on the train, their bags stowed away in the racks above them, the pamphlet showed no images of the sick—a choice made, Helen was sure, to deëmphasize the questionable science behind the treatment. It would be impossible to look at a photograph of someone as ill as, say, her fifty-seven-year-old mother and think that this faintly medieval idea, one that brought to mind leeches and exorcisms, could succeed where modern medicine had failed, or, in Dorothy’s case, where modern medicine had never been given the chance to go. The brochure talked about “renewal” and “refreshment,” and read more like a promotion for an overly expensive spa, of the kind that Helen had read about in fashion and travel magazines. She let the brochure fall to her lap. Her mother was sleeping, lying on her side across the opposite three seats, her knees pulled up to her chest, her child-sized feet peeking out from beneath her maroon down coat. It had been a good idea to splurge on the whole compartment, despite Dorothy’s protests about useless expenditure (they had taken the train at Dorothy’s insistence, in order to save money) and her usual vague, disapproving intimations that Helen’s “new” life in California, the one she had been living for ten years now—ever since she’d left the conservatory at twenty-two—was somehow profligate. It did Helen no good to explain that her motley collection of jobs—as a low-level administrative staffer and occasional page-turner for the Los Angeles Philharmonic, a piano teacher to private-school children, and a pianist on the High Holy Days at Temple Beth Hillel—netted barely enough to cover her expenses in the folly of an apartment she’d rented in the Hollywood Hills, which could be accessed only by an elevator tower or by a strenuous hike up a dirt-and-scrub path, and which had been featured in a famous movie from the seventies that she could never remember the name of, even when people reminded her of it over and over, exclaiming at her proximity to history as though she were living in a house once occupied by George Washington. The very fact that Helen drove a car, albeit a ten-year-old Nissan, was proof enough to Dorothy that she had embraced an ideological lack of frugality. The few times that Dorothy had allowed Helen to fly her to Los Angeles, Helen had found herself obscuring things from her mother, like the fact that she had, on a whim, reupholstered her living-room couch, although the original material was fine, and certainly not as threadbare as her mother’s valiant collection of chairs and couches, which stood in her New York apartment like the stoic survivors of some kind of rending disaster. Of course, as a child and even as a teen-ager, Helen had never noticed the fraying tablecloths or chipped china, had been comforted by the absolute predictability of her home, by the way “The Painted Bird” continued to occupy exactly the same place on the bookshelf as it had when she’d first discovered it, at age eleven, and stared, troubled and thrilled, at the grotesque and vaguely sexual cover art. A button placed in an ashtray when she was seven was sure to be there still when she was eight, nine, ten, adapted to its new habitat, and the ashtray itself adapted to its inhabitant, so that it was now “the place where the red button is” rather than anything useful for smokers. It was only as an adult, returning for visits, that she began to feel quietly dismayed by her mother’s thrift, as if it indicated something disturbing. Was Dorothy refusing the future? Was this the reason, too, that she had forsworn conventional treatment for her disease? Did she mean to die? Helen looked around the compartment. She had been right to reserve the entire thing without telling her mother. A first-class sleeper would have been too risky; her mother might not have even boarded the train. Helen had hoped that Dorothy, upon entering the second-class accommodations and finding no other passengers there, would simply assume that they were the recipients of a bit of good luck. But, of course, Dorothy figured things out the minute Helen closed the door behind them. The only reason she consented to this act of economic irresponsibility was that she was too ill to fight back. The flight from New York had been exhausting. As the hours across the ocean wore on, five-foot-one Dorothy had sunk farther and farther into her seat, until she resembled a child whose feet waggled impatiently above the broken-crayon-and-mini-pretzel-strewn floor. Helen had noticed the flight attendants casting worried glances at her mother whenever they passed, and she knew that they were quietly wondering if they were going to have a corpse on their hands before they reached Munich. She imagined that there was a protocol for this kind of emergency: surely they would remove the dead body from the sight of the other passengers—perhaps lay her mother on the floor of the galley at the back of the plane, cover her with some of those too thin blankets, or roll her into one of those ingenious storage places airplanes specialized in. But what was the protocol for taking your mother to have her blood boiled? In the low light of the train compartment, Dorothy’s face shone. She had grown so thin lately; her skin stretched tautly over her nose and her cheekbones like a sheet on a well-made bed. In the last few months, Helen had become intimate with her mother in a way that made them both uncomfortable. During her increasingly frequent visits to New York, she had bathed Dorothy, helped her to sit on the toilet, pared her thick, yellowing toenails, then stroked them with the bright-red discount-store polish that Dorothy had been faithful to all these years. This breaking down of the customary distance that had existed between mother and daughter for decades made it more and more difficult for Helen now to view her mother as a living thing rather than as a collection of body parts and functions. But perhaps that was a necessary by-product of giving care; Helen knew that if she allowed herself to look at the larger picture of her mother’s demise she would be overwhelmed by thoughts of needs, both met and not, and that she risked succumbing to a childlike terror of being left alone. When called on to be a page-turner at the Philharmonic, Helen found that if she concentrated on one note, and then the next, instead of letting her mind take in the whole sweep of the piece, she never failed to turn the page at the right time. It was only when she lost sight of the specifics, when she let her mind range backward and forward across the music like a low-flying bird, that she made a mistake. She’d begin by thinking about the music—what choices she might make in the speed of a diminuendo or the attack on a coda—and then, inevitably, she’d get trapped in an eddy of memory about the moment, or series of moments, that had led to her decision to leave the conservatory, to walk away from the possibility, no matter how far-fetched, of being the person who was now seated at the piano so close to her that she could hear his or her breaths and grunts and soft guttural moans, as if she were standing at the open doorway to a bedroom while the pianist was making love. And then, with her mind hijacked by so many thoughts, she would be a beat too late or too early with the turn, and suffer the annoyed glance of the pianist, and carry the mistake with her for days. When, a week earlier, Helen had told her nominal boyfriend, Nathan, about her mother’s decision to go to Germany for the treatment, he had almost rolled his eyes. Helen had been grateful for his blunt skepticism, because it allowed her to take the opposite position with a kind of self-righteousness that she would not otherwise have been able to muster. She had proclaimed, if not a belief in, at least a tolerance for this latest of her mother’s nonmedical solutions to “the cancer problem,” as Dorothy referred to it—as if it were a tangled political issue that might be written about on the editorial page of her beloved New York Times, and then hotly discussed with the butcher or the man at the shoe-repair place when she went out each day on her brisk round of errands. “She’s done her research,” Helen told Nathan, who sat at the kitchen table of her hilltop apartment—he had moved in a year earlier, after two years of dating. “They’ve had good results.” Nathan did not respond, because he was not a foolish man. Six months had passed since Helen had discovered that he was having an affair, and their current détente was built on the understanding that he would never again be able to speak freely. A year before, Nathan would have thrown back statistics of his own; he was in immunology research at Children’s Hospital, and had a dedicated disrespect for the alternative medical arts. Over the years, he had listened with slack-jawed disbelief when Helen had explained that her friends Wendy and Terry were postponing vaccinations for little Mandy and Timmo because of studies linking the shots to developmental delays. “Do you know how many kids die each year from whooping cough?” he had exclaimed in frustration. When Wendy had proudly told him that she’d cured Timmo’s conjunctivitis by squeezing her own breast milk into his eye, Nathan had not been able to restrain himself. “Right from your tit?” he’d responded, as if Wendy had exposed Timmo to porn. Helen felt a momentary pleasure now as she watched Nathan swallow his criticism of her mother’s new gambit; he was no longer sure of himself in their relationship. She had taken him back because he had apologized, begged, cried, and apologized again. But, in the current atmosphere of their relationship, he had no idea what concessions to his character she would continue to make, and what could cause her to send him back down that ancient elevator tower while she tossed his clothing from her balcony to the street below, white button-down shirts and briefs falling at his feet like shot birds. Could he continue to organize the papers she left scattered across the table into neat piles set at right angles to one another? Could he continue to indulge his need to keep the refrigerator clear of any food that was even approaching its use-by date? Still, although she had gained the upper hand in the relationship, her sense of victory was overshadowed by the knowledge that she no longer really had a boyfriend, only a set of misgivings and recriminations decorated as a handsome enough, smart enough, bearded, bespectacled man with delicate hands, shiny from too much washing. The loneliness that had descended on her in the aftermath of the crisis was so palpable that Helen often thought of it as a person. It stood by her side as she washed the dishes, or helped Marina Delgado, her best and most dedicated student, struggle through “The Well-Tempered Clavier” while she half listened, half watched the dust motes hanging in the air, lit by the afternoon light coming through the louvred windows of her apartment. The loneliness followed her, judged her, pointed out which of her irritating habits had finally driven Nathan to do what he had done. She was not sure why she hadn’t kicked him out in the end, except that she had begun to look forward to the outsized emotions of his entreaties, the late-night talks, the tears. She knew that the high drama was silly, but it reminded her of the kind of person she had once been—a girl who would weep when her rendition of a Beethoven adagio did not live up to the version that played in her imagination, a girl who would weep because perfection was too difficult a goal to aim for and too crushing to fall short of. What Helen had really felt, after hearing Dorothy’s description of the blood-heating regimen, was not skepticism but pity. But she would never have said this aloud, not only because she didn’t want to give Nathan the satisfaction but because she knew that it was horrible to have such feelings toward her mother, whom she loved—if that was the right word for the mixture of frustration and gratitude and hatred and tolerance and surprising, intractable, illogical attachment she felt for Dorothy, who was as deeply and inescapably rooted inside Helen as her own fractured heart. Dr. Halverson, Dorothy’s purported oncologist and an old suitor from her City College days, had recently pronounced the disease so far gone that the risks of conventional treatment, if Dorothy were to change her mind, would be more deleterious than the risks of doing nothing. “You mean my risk of dying is now no better than my risk of dying?” Dorothy replied. “Dodi,” Dr. Halverson sighed, shaking his head at her lack of sentiment, an atavistic admiration dancing around his lips. Helen had been in the examination room when he broke the news. She could not figure out why Dorothy continued to consult Dr. Halverson, or why he agreed to see her, despite her long-term resistance to his advice. What was the point of all those unfilled prescriptions for lab tests? Why did he continue to let her waste his time? Maybe he, like Helen, was so mystified by Dorothy’s aberrant choice of the esoteric over science that he didn’t quite believe it, and was waiting for Dorothy to finally break down, reclaim her lifelong set-jawed, unforgiving gaze on life, and start the do-si-do of chemo and radiation. Dorothy, this short, mouthy woman from Bayonne who had marched for women’s rights and against Vietnam, hidden in the crowds while her homemade posters floated in the air above her as though held aloft by a ghost, had never once, in fifty-seven years, shown an interest in anything “alternative,” or even philosophical. Helen had been six when her father died. She asked how long it took a person to climb to Heaven. Dorothy took Helen’s face in her hands and said, “Not Heaven, honey. That’s just a fairy tale.” How frustrating it must have been for Dr. Halverson to watch Dorothy now, placing her faith in Dr. Hsia and his stinking herbs in Chinatown, or in Paul Romero and his needles in Park Slope, or in the water-therapy clinic in D.C. Helen admired the doctor’s delicacy. He never belittled Dorothy’s choices, and in these past months, when Dorothy had experienced her first truly frightening bouts of pain, he had visited the apartment as often as he could. His patience stood in sharp contrast to Nathan’s disparagement. “It’s her body,” Helen had said to Nathan, in defense of the Germany plan. The word “body” sank to the ground the minute she said it, weighted, as it was, with the idea of his body and his desires, which had managed so casually to reject hers. She felt suddenly conscious of her thighs wrapped tightly (too tightly?) in denim, her small breasts bolstered ineffectually by some newfangled underwire bra she’d bought online. She had never had smooth skin—had picked and squeezed it too much as a teen-ager, despite her mother’s warnings. Was that it? Did Nathan’s other woman have small pores? Nathan shrugged, smiled, then scrolled through five other expressions, trying to find the one that would cause him the least harm. Helen was humiliated all over again. That was the problem with his transgression, she thought: he had taken so many words away from her. Besides “body,” there was “candy” (the woman’s ridiculous name), there was “desert” (one of the places they’d trysted), and whole sentences like “What are you thinking about?,” which was as dangerous as stepping in front of a speeding car. The train made a stop at a local station. It was dark outside, and shadowy figures wearing heavy overcoats against the midwinter cold moved on and off the platform. Dorothy’s eyes opened. She stared across the compartment toward her daughter, but Helen could tell that Dorothy was not seeing, that she was suspended somewhere between her pill-induced sleep and a fuzzy semi-alertness. It made her feel weak to see her mother hovering helplessly in this state. As much as she hated to admit it, Helen counted on her mother’s decisiveness, her unwillingness to wander around in the gray areas of emotion. When Helen, having finished with middling results in too many competitions, and having taken a good hard look at where she stood among her musical peers, made the decision to give up her dream of becoming a concert pianist, Dorothy had said, “That’s sensible,” as though she’d been waiting patiently for Helen to get the answer right for years. Helen suddenly felt the lie behind all those performances and recitals; she had thought her mother her ally, when in fact Dorothy had been tapping her foot the whole time, waiting for Helen to wise up. Helen regarded her mother a moment longer. The blue of her eyes was rheumy, indistinct. Her mouth hung open in a way that Helen knew she would hate. A few strands of hair were stuck to her dry lips. Dorothy had imparted several important pieces of advice to Helen in her youth, one of which was “Don’t hold your mouth open—it makes you look stupid.” Helen was also to wear a bra even in bed, in a war against future droop, and never to hook her hair behind her ears if she didn’t want them to stick out. Dorothy’s advice was like that—warnings on how to avoid a dark, ugly inevitability. So, in reality, it wasn’t advice at all, only an acknowledgment of Helen’s ultimate inefficacy in the face of the Cards You’ve Been Dealt. Dorothy’s teeth seemed yellower than Helen remembered. But everything about her seemed yellow now, like the pages of an old library book. “God,” Dorothy said, breathlessly, and, for a moment, Helen wondered if she was having a conversation with that Man she professed not to believe in. But Dorothy’s eyes were focussed now. She had come to. “Where are we?” “Nowhere,” Helen said, looking out the window into the darkness. “We just passed a town. You should sleep some more, Mom. We have a ways to go.” She regretted this suggestion. Her mother was cunning enough to know when she was not wanted. “Whenever I sleep, I feel like I’m rehearsing for something,” Dorothy said, attempting to sit up. Helen stood and helped Dorothy settle against the train seat. She smelled of the tuberose per-fume she’d used her whole life, that and the turning odor of the body in decline. Helen wondered when this happened—at what point the body’s smells could no longer be masked by deodorants or flowery soaps, at what point they would stop taking no for an answer. “How do you feel?” Helen asked, sitting back down, across from her mother. She herself had barely recovered from the eight hours on the plane from New York. She felt clammy and bloated from having eaten too many meals in too short a time. She wanted to strip, have a bath, evacuate, start over again. “I feel like shit, darling,” Dorothy said. “Are you hungry?” Helen asked. “No.” “You should eat.” Helen looked into her purse. “I have a granola bar. And that turkey sandwich from the plane.” “That will kill me. What is it, ten hours old?” “You’ll need your strength.” Helen held out the granola bar. “Let’s put away the platitude playbook, sweetheart,” Dorothy said. “If there’s one thing I know about lately, it’s my dear, disastrous body. And if it eats right now it will upchuck all over this lovely compartment you’ve wasted your money on.” Helen studied the pattern of veins webbed across her mother’s cheeks. She thought about La Brea Woman. A model of the dwarfish prehistoric woman was posed in a glass case at a museum on Wilshire. She appeared clad in an animal pelt, her long black hair modestly covering her naked plaster breasts. But, then, through a trick of light and mirrors, her outfit, as well as her skin, fell away, so that you could see her knobby skeleton. Helen had visited the museum when she first moved to Los Angeles, thrilled by the city’s oddities in the way, she now knew, so many new immigrants were—as if kitsch could justify their decision to move to this patently unglamorous place. “You make it awfully hard, Mom,” Helen said, finally. “Oh, I’m sorry,” Dorothy sighed, her expression genuinely penitent. “But for some reason having cancer gives everyone else the feeling they can order you around. Like you don’t know what’s good for yourself, now that you’ve been stupid enough to contract this disease.” “I’m sorry.” “Don’t apologize.” “I’m sorry.” “Don’t— ” But Helen was smiling, and Dorothy’s eyes lit up at the memory. Dorothy had despised Helen’s habit, when she was younger, of apologizing for everything and everyone around her—which was, in itself, a reaction, Helen had begun to think, to her mother’s uncomfortable insistence on truthfulness. After months of Helen’s complaining about a certain irrationally mean science teacher, Dorothy had walked right up to the woman at an open house—a woman who was half a foot taller than she—and asked her if she was experiencing menopause. Helen had spent much of her youth trying to position herself at a physical and psychological ten-foot remove from her mother. She put the granola bar back in her purse. They were good together this way, teasing each other. When Helen had discovered the affair, she flew to New York. It was a strange impulse—to seek out her mother for emotional succor—and she was almost frightened when she arrived at the apartment, certain that her mother, never a baker of chocolate-chip cookies or a soother of feverish foreheads, would only make her feel worse. She had spent the weekend in an old Lanz nightgown that her mother had saved, standing at the open door of the refrigerator with a hand on her hip, pouting. Dorothy had been a wonder of humor, insisting that they Google “Nathan’s girl,” as she referred to her, and, together, mother and daughter had stared at a picture of the absurdly named doctor with the dumbfounded awe one feels in the presence of a masterpiece. Candi was pretty enough, with a lustrous mane of brown hair and the kind of ethnic looks that had been smoothed out by cross-fertilization or plastic surgery. She was obviously younger than Helen. But, before Helen could fall into despondency, Dorothy found fault with the set of the woman’s eyes, her thin lips, her ironed hair. She could tell that the woman had a “big tush,” despite the fact that the image on the computer screen showed her only from the neck up. Her dissection made Helen laugh and feel defended, full of gratitude. The dim shapes of small villages appeared against the night sky like phantoms, only to disappear into nearly unarticulated darkness. An occasional bright constellation spread across the land, signalling a town of more significance. If she squinted, Helen could make out church steeples, the dark spill of homes on a hillside, and large, low factory buildings. She could have been anywhere in the world. She had never been to Germany before, and now she was seeing the country only as geographic semaphore. “I need to pee,” Dorothy said. Helen stood up immediately, glad to be necessary. She helped her mother out of their compartment, and, together, they awkwardly negotiated the narrow corridor. Helen held on to her mother as she opened the bathroom door, careful not to let her lose her balance as the train lurched from side to side. Dorothy was as light and fragile as papier-mâché. Helen closed the bathroom door behind them, reached past her mother, and flipped up the metal toilet lid, then steadied Dorothy as she loosened her slacks and eased them down her hips. Dorothy had always been private with her body; Helen could not remember ever having seen her naked before the disease had turned her into a reluctant exhibitionist. “I think I can take it from here,” Dorothy said. Helen stepped back into the corridor and shut the door. She leaned against the cold windows, trying to get the image of her mother’s thighs out of her mind, the way the folds of skin sloped gently toward her pubic area like small waves rippling onto a barren shore. Five minutes later, Dorothy came out of the bathroom, exhausted by the effort. The door swung shut behind her, and she leaned against it as she zipped and buttoned her slacks. Embarrassed, Helen tried to shield Dorothy from the view of the few strangers who lingered farther down the corridor. Her discomfort soon gave way to sadness, as she realized the degree to which the disease had stripped her mother of the identity that had got her through so much in her life, and with such grace. “It’s like a prison camp in there,” Dorothy said. “You’d think they’d make it a little bigger just to avoid the innuendo.” Helen moved to help her. “I’m fine,” Dorothy said, reaching to either side of the corridor and unsteadily making her way back to their compartment. Helen realized that her arms were still extended toward her mother, as if she could somehow conduct Dorothy to a safe landing. She lowered her hands, feeling ridiculous. Her mother had eschewed help all her life, had put herself through City College by working night shifts as a secretary. After she married Helen’s father, she’d helped him open his dental practice, running his office, sometimes masquerading as his assistant when he could afford only a part-time girl. He’d died just when his practice had grown large enough to be worth selling, and even then, despite the reasonable income from the sale, Dorothy had continued to work as the office manager for the new dentist, never for a minute giving in to any maudlin emotion about another man’s filling her dear departed husband’s white soft-soled shoes. She never thought to remarry. “Oh, I did that already,” she said simply, when Helen raised the subject, as if marriage were a step in a recipe that you would not want to repeat. “Would you like me to read to you?” Helen asked, once they were back in their seats. “What have you got?” Helen dug eagerly into her bag. “Vogue. People. Neruda.” Dorothy smirked. “That’s cheap, sweetheart.” “You love Neruda.” “Are we searching for my epitaph?” Dorothy said. “That’s unfair,” Helen said, with the requisite amount of hurt in her tone. The truth was that she had thought about what to read at her mother’s funeral and had made the private decision that it would be Neruda. Though Dorothy was not a fan of poetry and its vagaries in general, Neruda was the one poet she had gone out of her way to read. But was this why Helen had grabbed the book from the shelf on her way out the door in L.A.? Was she this fumbling, this obvious? She began to put the book away. “Read it,” Dorothy said. “No, it’s all right.” “I want to hear it.” “We’ll read something else,” she said, pulling out the Vogue and reading from the cover. “ ‘The New Stripes.’ ” “Read the Neruda,” Dorothy said flatly. Helen checked her mother’s face to see on which side of sarcasm she had taken up residence. Dorothy smiled enigmatically; it was the same inscrutable expression Helen remembered from her youth, from, for instance, the day she’d smoked marijuana in the apartment while her mother was at work and then tried to cover it up with some laughably ineffective incense. Dorothy had smiled then, too, saying nothing. But when Helen woke up the next morning she found a note taped to the bathroom mirror. “Smart people are not necessarily decent,” it said, and Helen felt as though her mother had reached inside her body and squeezed her heart. She opened the book and began to read: Tonight I can write the saddest lines. Write, for example, “The night is starry and the stars are blue and shiver in the distance.” The night wind revolves in the sky and sings. Tonight I can write the saddest lines. I loved her, and sometimes she loved me too. Through nights like this one I held her in my arms. I kissed her again and again under the endless sky. She stopped. “Mmm. Go on,” Dorothy said. Her eyes were closed. “I’m tired,” Helen said. Dorothy opened her eyes and studied her daughter. Helen looked down at the book. Her tears made the words into a bleary confusion of black smudges. “Oh, shit,” she said, trying to banish her sadness with ugly words, words that her mother had taught her never to use, because they were public admissions that you could not find a more exact, more intelligent way to say what you had to say. “I’m so fucked.” “Or not. As the case may be,” Dorothy said. Helen looked up. “Ew,” she said. Dorothy shrugged, delighted. “Remember when you hired that Cinderella to come to my birthday party?” Helen said, trying to change the subject. “I thought she really was Cinderella. The Cinderella. Come all the way from, you know, wherever, just for my party. You made her take off her wig at the end to show me that she was just some out-of-work actress.” “I always thought there was something evil about those parents who carry on about the tooth fairy and then tell stories about how darling their gullible children are. I don’t believe in it.” “You have to believe in something,” Helen said, distractedly. Dorothy did not respond. “What do you believe in, Mom?” Dorothy eyed her warily. “Is this one of these before-you-go questions?” “It’s just a question. I’d like to know.” Dorothy turned to look out the dark window. “Well, turns out I’m tired, too,” she said, closing her eyes. The last Philharmonic concert had been a near disaster. The Brazilian pianist on the bill had cancelled at the last minute, due to illness, and a replacement had been called in. The woman, an American, was young, maybe only two or three years older than Helen, but she had a good résumé, had recorded and performed with major symphonies—all the stuff of a strong career on an upward trajectory. The rehearsals had gone well, and the woman was full of humor with the conductor and the orchestra, and even with Helen, sweetly self-deprecating about her need to have the score in front of her, although she knew the piece by heart and had performed it before. “You’ll be my security blanket,” she said to Helen, who had been surprised by the intimacy of the remark; she was not usually addressed, except on issues that concerned the performance itself, the pianists explaining their particular taste in the timing of the page-turning, how close or far away they wanted Helen to sit. The piece was one that Helen had studied but never performed, and during rehearsal she felt her fingers moving lightly on her thighs. Studying the music a few nights earlier at the upright in her apartment, she had tried to make her way through it, and had been pleased that she could actually make whole passages nearly coherent. Nathan had come out of the bedroom to listen to her, and had applauded when she left off in the middle of a movement, feeling suddenly exposed, as though she were appearing naked before him for the first time. “No, go on,” Nathan said. She shook her head, her face flushing. “It’s difficult.” “It sounded great.” She looked at him, trying to suss out his strategy, but his face was wide open with surprise and pleasure. She stood up from the piano stool and went to him. He took her in his arms and she stood with him for a minute or two, realizing how refreshing it was to be with a man who did not think of her as a failure, the way she imagined so many of the musicians she knew must, the way she tried not to think of herself. He was nice that way, Nathan was. He sat in the living room along with the parents and grandparents of her students on recital afternoons, clapping loudly and, afterward, dissecting each student’s performance with her, rejoicing in the children’s small victories, wincing sympathetically at the memory of their bumbles. He took her seriously, even when she found it hard to do the same. On the evening of the concert, Helen sat in her chair by the piano, wearing one of her two black concert dresses, subdued and prudish enough not to overshadow the artist; her appearance and movements needed to be so unremarkable as to be practically invisible. This suited her, this negation. It was the only way she could think about herself in relation to music now: as its shadow, its stalker. The pianist adjusted her own deep-red gown, its sleeves netted with rhinestones that would pick up the light and accentuate the hard, swift work of her arms; she adjusted her seat, tossed her loose hair behind her shoulders. Helen always enjoyed the feeling of tense excitement right before a concert began—it was one of the few times in life that you could be sure you were on the verge of pleasure. It was like facing into a giant wave and then allowing it to take you. The pianist made her opening attack with a kind of fury that made Helen’s spine shiver. With that flourish, she announced to the conductor and the orchestra that she was going to step things up. She was going to make sure that the audience, disappointed by the program insert, came away grateful for the illness of the replaced performer. She was going to own the piece so completely that no one would remember that it wasn’t rightfully hers. Ten minutes in, however, something happened, something imperceptible to anyone but Helen and the pianist; it was like a skipped heartbeat—the woman’s neck stiffened, and she began to peer at the music where before she had largely ignored it. Helen’s breath caught high in her chest. She felt as light-headed as she had when she called Nathan’s hotel room at a conference in Austin and heard the voice of a woman in the background, followed by Nathan’s sharp “No!” And then the silence, full of his miserable inability to take back the mistake; it had been like an unwitting step off a cliff. The pianist’s first slip came midway down a page—a second B-flat where there should have been an A. She kept going, and Helen was careful not to glance up; she wanted to make it appear that the mistake had passed unnoticed. But she could sense the pianist dissembling, could feel it in the atoms between her and the woman, which started to jump about like bubbles in a bottle of soda; she could feel the effect on her skin. The woman was trying to muscle her way back into the closed room of her focussed mind, but things just kept getting worse—a fumbled triad, and then having to make a quarter rest into an eighth in order to get back on track. And then, at the bottom of the next page, just as Helen rose into her half stand and leaned in to make her move, she caught the panicked look in the pianist’s eyes and knew that the woman was lost, that her concentration had deserted her, and that the strange alchemy by which a musician could be both inside and outside the music at the same time—both intellectually aware of the orchestra and of all that she had learned and decided about the music, and yet so wholly within the space of her own soul that the music was like speech, integrated and effortless—was coming undone. Helen turned the page. The pianist looked at her sharply and Helen knew that she had done wrong. But what could she do? It had been time to turn the page. The music was continuing, the orchestra relentlessly pushing forward. A swift glance at the woman and Helen realized that she was not angry but desperate, and that Helen was now involved in an intimate, silent dialogue with her. The woman was asking Helen to save her. Helen gestured with her chin at the music, smiled in what she hoped was an optimistic way. Just go on, she meant to say. The woman had only to find her place in the line of notes and chords, and slip back in, like a girl stepping into the alternating jump ropes in a game of Double Dutch. She needed to yank her brain away from the accident, the missed notes, as Helen had had to yank hers away from Nathan’s damning silence on the phone from Austin, from her mother’s diagnosis, and move forward, head toward the next indicated thing, even if there were no directions. But the woman’s desperation only grew, and Helen did something that she knew was patently wrong in the etiquette of her job but was equally necessary: she rose fully off her seat, as she did when helping a faltering student through a recital, reached forward, and put her finger on the correct measure, then sat down, hoping that her move had been just swift and subtle enough not to draw the attention of the audience. But she knew that this was impossible. Eventually, the pianist found her equilibrium, and although the rest of the movement, and the entire concerto, seemed subdued to Helen’s ear, there were no more mistakes. The audience was generous; Helen stood by her seat while the conductor and the pianist responded to the loud applause, then followed them offstage, keeping her customary distance behind them so as not to distract. When the pianist and the conductor returned to the stage for a second bow, the pianist shot her a complicated look full of gratitude and sorrow, hatred and shame, all at the same time, and Helen was sent hurtling back to the time when she herself had been unable to make her music perfect, when she had been filled with sadness and rage and hope and the aching sense of being close, but not close enough, to beauty. Dorothy woke up, moaning. “Mom?” Helen said, snapping out of her drowsy reverie into full-throttle fear. Dorothy put her hands to her breastbone. “Hurts,” she said, in a high, strained voice. Helen reached across the aisle to where her mother was now doubled over, her head on her knees. Dorothy let out a muted, inhuman bark. “Can you breathe like that, Mom? Let me sit you up.” She moved next to her mother, and slowly pulled Dorothy’s shoulders toward the seat back. Dorothy’s face was bloodless. “Mom?” Helen said. She was terrified, and instantly filled with a grief she’d imagined lay in store for her only later, long after this trip was over, long after her mother had died. But now it seemed that the sorrow had always been there, perhaps from the very start—from the moment she was born and first saw this person, this tiny woman who was to be her protector and guide—that it had been waiting for her ever since. She was horrified to find that her mind had made an acrobatic leap forward, that she was already turning the moment into a reminiscence she’d tell, of her last night on earth with her mother. “We were miles from anywhere,” she’d say. “We had a whole compartment to ourselves!”—as if this inexcusable luxury should at least have staved off death. Dorothy groaned. “Let me get your purse,” Helen said, beginning to rise from the seat. “Do you have any painkillers in there, Mom? Did Dr. Halverson give you something?” Dorothy reached up and, with surprising strength, pulled Helen down next to her. She whispered something unintelligible. “What? Mom?” Helen said, leaning close to her mother’s face. She could smell Dorothy’s sour breath. “Stop moving,” Dorothy said, the words barely audible. “There’s got to be something we can do,” Helen said. “Why?” Helen realized that she was holding her mother’s narrow hand in hers. She couldn’t remember the last time she had held her mother’s hand. She turned it over, and gently began to stroke her mother’s wrinkled palm in circles. “Is that good?” Helen said. “Does that help?” “Does it?” Dorothy said softly. Helen wondered if Dorothy was confused. Perhaps the cancer was affecting her brain. She searched her face, but could see nothing more than the mask that Dorothy had put on to barricade herself against the pain. “It’s too much, Mom. It’s just too much,” Helen said. “No,” Dorothy whispered, her voice barely audible above the sound of the train. “It’s just enough.” The clinic was on the outskirts of town, and it took nearly forty-five minutes to get there by cab. The ride was more horrific than any part of the journey to that point. Even though Dorothy had agreed to take the pain medication that Dr. Halverson had given her, simply getting her up off her train seat took Helen nearly ten minutes. Helen flagged a porter through the open window, and the young man helped her, both with the bags and with the awkward attempt to move Dorothy out of the compartment, through the corridor, down the three metal steps, and onto the platform. Helen could tell that her mother was making a huge effort to hide her pain, but even with her mouth set and her eyes nearly closed her expression was stricken. Helen apologized for the jolts to her mother’s body, for the cold smack of air that greeted them on the platform, for the distance they had to cross to reach the cab stand, until she realized that what she really meant to apologize for was the fact that no amount of flinty-eyed pragmatism would help Dorothy through this moment, the fact that simply being was sometimes an unbearable mess and what was hoped for in life was so rarely reached, the shortfall so much more fumbling and base than anything one had ever imagined for oneself. Helen held her mother as the cab bumped and buckled over the streets of Frankfurt. She thought to yell at the driver, to try to make him understand that he had to slow down because her mother was dying of cancer, but she knew that her mother’s pain was so deep and pervasive that a gentler cab ride would do nothing to ameliorate it. The cab pulled up to the curb in front of the clinic. Helen looked out her window. The building was far from the brewery of her fantasy. A genteel-looking Beaux-Arts structure squeezed between a pizzeria and a bookshop—there was nothing to indicate that anything medical went on inside it at all, no symbol of a rod and twisted serpent, not even a wheelchair ramp. Anything could have been taking place behind those bevelled-glass doors—lawyers spinning cases, lovers making arguments of their own. Helen suddenly longed to stay in the cab, to ask the driver to carry on, take them anywhere, nowhere, as long as she could stay sitting like this, with her mother nestled safely in her arms. The driver turned and looked at the women expectantly. “Are we there?” Dorothy’s voice was raw. “Yes. This is it.” “What are we waiting for?” Helen paid the driver. He got out of the car to retrieve the bags from the trunk while Helen gingerly helped her mother onto the sidewalk. “My God, it’s cold!” Helen said, buttoning Dorothy’s coat up to her neck, and then tugging her own around her as the cab pulled away from the curb. “You couldn’t have chosen a better season for this?” she teased. “I hear spring in Germany is lovely.” But she was stopped short by Dorothy’s expression, which seemed so tentative, as though she were facing not a four-story town house but Mt. Everest, the task looming high and impossible before her. Helen realized suddenly that Dorothy had not made her baffling medical choices because she wanted to die, any more than she chose to live among her withering possessions because she did not desire a future. She understood that her mother wanted to live, but that, standing here on this foreign street, she had momentarily lost her way. The path through this complicated piece of life, which must have seemed so clear to Dorothy just a few days ago, sitting in her apartment in New York, was now as inscrutable as a piece of music could be when first confronted—a wild and alien language of signs that seemed like the ravings of some madman, until you put your hands on the keys and played one note, then the next, then the next. Helen could see panic in Dorothy’s eyes, the same panic she’d seen on the face of the pianist, marooned in a sea of sound that suddenly made no sense. Helen raised her hand and pointed at the door. “This is it, Mom,” she said. “This is the place. We just have to walk a few more steps and then we’ll be there.” But just as she was about to put her arm around her mother, Dorothy drew herself up, somehow guided back to herself by her daughter’s confident gesture and voice, and started forward on her own. 
Paper Losses Although Kit and Rafe had met in the peace movement, marching, organizing, making no-nukes signs, now they wanted to kill each other. They had become, also, a little pro-nuke. Married for two decades of precious, precious life, she and Rafe seemed currently to be partners only in anger and dislike, their old, lusty love mutated to rage. It was both their shame and demise that hate (like love) could not live on air. And so in this, their newly successful project together, they were complicitous and synergistic. They were nurturing, homeopathic, and enabling. They spawned and raised their hate together, cardiovascularly, spiritually, organically. In tandem, as a system, as a dance team of bad feeling, they had shoved their hate center stage and shone a spotlight down for it to seize. Do your stuff, baby! Who is the best? Who’s the man? “Pro-nuke? You are? Really?” Kit was asked by her friends, to whom she continued, indiscreetly, to complain. “Well, no.” Kit sighed. “But in a way.” “Seems like you need someone to talk to.” Which hurt Kit’s feelings, since she’d felt that she was talking to them. “I’m simply concerned about the kids,” she said. Rafe had changed. His smile was just a careless yawn, or was his smile just stuck carelessly on? Which was the correct lyric? She didn’t know. But, for sure, he had changed. In Beersboro, one put things neutrally, like that. Such changes were couched. No one ever said that a man was now completely fucked-up. They said, “The guy has changed.” Rafe had started to make model rockets in the basement. He’d become a little different. He was something of a character. The brazen might suggest, “He’s gotten into some weird shit.” The rockets were tall, plastic, penile-shaped things to which Rafe carefully shellacked authenticating military decals. What had happened to the handsome hippie she’d married? He was prickly and remote, empty with fury. A blankness had entered his blue-green eyes. They stayed wide and bright but non-functional, like dime-store jewelry. She wondered if this was a nervous breakdown, the genuine article. But it persisted for months, and she began to suspect, instead, a brain tumor. Occasionally, he catcalled and wolf-whistled across his mute alienation, his pantomime of hate momentarily collapsed. “Hey, cutie,” he’d call to her from the stairs, after not having looked her in the eye for two months. It was like being snowbound with someone’s demented uncle: should marriage be like that? She wasn’t sure. She seldom saw him anymore when he got up in the morning and rushed off to his office. And when he came home from work he’d disappear down the basement stairs. Nightly, in the anxious conjugal dusk that was now their only life together, after the kids had gone to bed, the house would fill up with fumes. When she called down to him about this, he never answered. He seemed to have turned into some sort of space alien. Of course, later she would understand that all this meant that he was involved with another woman, but at the time, protecting her own vanity and sanity, she was working with two hypotheses only: brain tumor or space alien. “All husbands are space aliens,” her friend Jan said on the phone. “God help me, I had no idea.” Kit began spreading peanut butter on a pretzel and eating quickly. “He’s in such disconnect. His judgment is so bad.” “Not on the planet he lives on. On his planet, he’s a veritable Solomon. ‘Bring the stinkin’ baby to me now!’ ” “Do you think people can be rehabilitated and forgiven?” “Sure! Look at Ollie North.” “He lost that Senate race. He was not sufficiently forgiven.” “But he got some votes.” “Yeah, and now what is he doing?” “Now he’s promoting a line of fire-retardant pajamas. It’s a life!” She paused. “Do you fight about it?” “About what?” Kit asked. “The rockets back to his homeland.” Kit sighed again. “Yes, the toxic military-crafts business poisoning our living space. Do I fight? I don’t fight, I just, well, O.K.—I ask a few questions from time to time. I ask, ‘What the hell are you doing?’ I ask, ‘Are you trying to asphyxiate your entire family?’ I ask, ‘Did you hear me?’ Then I ask, ‘Did you hear me?’ again. Then I ask, ‘Are you deaf?’ I also ask, ‘What do you think a marriage is? I’m really just curious to know,’ and also, ‘Is this your idea of a well-ventilated place?’ A simple interview, really. I don’t believe in fighting. I believe in giving peace a chance. I also believe in internal bleeding.” She paused to shift the phone more comfortably against her face. “I’m also interested,” Kit said, “in those forensically undetectable dissolving plastic bullets. Have you heard of those?” “No.” “Well, maybe I’m wrong about those. I’m probably wrong. That’s where the Mysterious Car Crash may have to come in.” In the chrome of the refrigerator she caught the reflection of her own face, part brunette Shelley Winters, part potato, the finely etched sharps and accidentals beneath her eyes a musical interlude amid the bloat. In every movie she had seen with Shelley Winters in it, Shelley Winters was the one who died. Peanut butter was stuck high and dry on Kit’s gums. On the counter, a large old watermelon had begun to sag and pull apart in the middle along the curve of seeds, like a shark’s grin, and she lopped off a wedge, rubbed its cool point around the inside of her mouth. It had been a year since Rafe kissed her. She sort of cared and sort of didn’t. A woman had to choose her own particular unhappiness carefully. That was the only happiness in life: choosing the best unhappiness. An unwise move and, good God, you could squander everything. The summons took her by surprise. It came in the mail, addressed to her, and there it was, stapled to divorce papers. She’d been properly served. The bitch had been papered. Like a person, a marriage was unrecognizable in death, even when buried in its favorite suit. Atop the papers themselves was a letter from Rafe suggesting their spring wedding anniversary as the final divorce date. “Why not complete the symmetry?” he wrote, which didn’t even sound like him, though its heartless efficiency was suited to this, his new life as a space alien, and generally in keeping with the principles of space-alien culture. The papers referred to Kit and Rafe by their legal names, Katherine and Raphael, as if the more formal versions of them were the ones who were divorcing—their birth certificates were divorcing!—and not they themselves. Rafe was still living in the house and had not yet told her that he’d bought a new one. “Honey,” she said, trembling, “something very interesting came in the mail today.” Rage had its medicinal purposes, but she was not wired to sustain it, and when it tumbled away loneliness engulfed her, grief burning at the center with a cold blue heat. At the funerals of two different elderly people she hardly knew, she wept in the back row of the church like a secret lover of the deceased. She felt woozy and ill and never wanted to see Rafe—or, rather, Raphael—again, but they had promised the kids this Caribbean vacation; it was already booked, so what could they do? This, at last, was what all those high-school drama classes had been for: acting. She had once played the queen in “A Winter’s Tale,” and once a changeling child in a play called “Love Me Right Now,” written by one of the more disturbing English teachers in her high school. In both of these performances, she had learned that time was essentially a comic thing—only constraints upon it diverted it to tragedy, or, at least, to misery. Romeo and Juliet, Tristan and Isolde—if only they’d had more time! Marriage stopped being comic when it was suddenly halted, at which point it became divorce, which time never disturbed and the funniness of which was never-ending. Still, Rafe mustered up thirty seconds of utterance in an effort to persuade her not to join him and the children on this vacation. “I don’t think you should go,” he announced. “I’m going,” she said. “We’ll be giving the children false hope.” “Hope is never false. Or it’s always false. Whatever. It’s just hope,” she said. “Nothing wrong with that.” “I just don’t think you should go.” Divorce, she could see, would be like marriage: a power grab. Who would be the dog and who would be the owner of the dog? At this point, however, she and Rafe had not yet signed the papers. And there was still the matter of her wedding ring, which was studded with little junk emeralds and which she liked a lot and hoped she could continue wearing because it didn’t look like a typical wedding ring. He had removed his ring—which did look like a typical wedding ring—a year before, because, he said, “it bothered him.” She had thought at the time that he’d meant it was rubbing. She had not been deeply alarmed; he had often shed his clothes spontaneously—when they first met, he’d been something of a nudist. It was good to date a nudist: things moved right along. But it was not good trying to stay married to one. Soon she would be going on chaste geriatric dates with other people whose clothes would, like hers, remain glued to the body. “What if I can’t get my ring off?” she said to him now on the plane. She had gained a little weight during their twenty years of marriage, but really not all that much. She had been practically a child bride! “Send me the sawyer’s bill,” he said. Oh, the sparkle in his eye was gone! “What is wrong with you?” she said. Of course, she blamed his parents, who had somehow, long ago, accidentally or on purpose, raised him as a space alien, with space-alien values, space-alien thoughts, and the hollow, shifty character, concocted guilelessness, and sociopathic secrets of a space alien. “What is wrong with you?” he snarled. This was his habit, his space-alien habit, of merely repeating what she had just said to him. It had to do, no doubt, with his central nervous system, a silicon-chipped information processor incessantly encountering new linguistic combinations, which it then had to absorb and file. Repetition bought time and assisted the storage process. She was less worried about the girls, who were just little, than she was about Sam, her sensitive fourth grader, who now sat across the airplane aisle, moodily staring out the window at the clouds. Soon, through the machinations of the state’s extremely progressive divorce laws—a boy needs his dad!—she would no longer see him every day; he would become a boy who no longer saw his mother every day, and he would scuttle a little and float off and away like paper carried by wind. With time, he would harden: he would eye her over his glasses, in the manner of a maître d’ suspecting riffraff. He would see her coming the way a panicked party guest sees someone without a nametag. But on this, their last trip as an actual family, he did fairly well at not letting on. They all slept in the same room, in separate beds, and saw other families squalling and squabbling, so that by comparison theirs—a family about to break apart forever—didn’t look so bad. She was not deceived by the equatorial sea breeze and so did not overbake herself in the colonial sun; with the resort managers, she shared her moral outrage at the armed guards who kept the local boys from sneaking past the fence onto this white, white beach; and she rubbed a kind of resin into her brow to freeze it and downplay the creases—to make her appear younger for her departing husband, though he never once glanced at her. Not that she looked that good: her suitcase had got lost and she was forced to wear clothes purchased from the gift shop—the words “La Caribe” emblazoned across every single thing. On the beach, people read books about Rwandan and Yugoslavian genocide. This was to add seriousness to a trip that lacked it. One was supposed not to notice the dark island boys on the other side of the barbed wire, throwing rocks. There were ways of making things vanish temporarily. One could disappear oneself, in movement and repetition. Sam liked only the trampoline and nothing else. There were dolphin rides, but he sensed their cruelty. “They speak a language,” he said. “We shouldn’t ride them.” “They look happy,” Kit said. Sam studied her with a seriousness from some sweet beyond. “They look happy so you won’t kill them.” “You think so?” “If dolphins tasted good,” he said, “we wouldn’t even know about their language.” That the intelligence in a thing could undermine your appetite for it. That yumminess obscured the mind of the yummy as well as the mind of the yummer. That deliciousness resulted in decapitation. That you could understand something only if you did not desire it. How did he know such things already? Usually girls knew them first. But not hers. Her girls, Beth and Dale, were tough beyond her comprehension: practical, self-indulgent, independent five-year-old twins, a system unto themselves. They had their own secret world of Montessori code words and plastic jewelry and spells of hilarity brought on mostly by the phrase “cinnamon M&M’s” repeated six times, fast. They wore sparkly fairy wings wherever they went, even over cardigans, and they carried wands. “I’m a big brother now,” Sam had said repeatedly to everyone and with uncertain pride the day the girls were born, and after that he spoke not another word on the matter. Sometimes Kit accidentally referred to Beth and Dale as Death and Bale, as they, for instance, buried their several Barbies in sand, then lifted them out again with glee. A woman on a towel, reading of genocide, turned and smiled. In this fine compound on the sea, the contradictions of life were grotesque and uninventable. Kit went to the central office and signed up for a hot-stone massage. “Would you like a man or a woman?” the receptionist asked. “Excuse me?” Kit said, stalling. After all these years of marriage, which did she want? What did she know of men—or women? “There’s no such thing as ‘men,’ ” Jan used to say. “Every man is different. The only thing they have in common is, well, a capacity for horrifying violence.” “A man or a woman—for the massage?” Kit asked. She thought of the slow mating of snails, hermaphrodites for whom it was all so confusing: by the time they had figured out who was going to be the girl and who was going to be the boy, someone came along with some garlic paste and just swooped them right up. “Oh, either one,” she said, and then knew she’d get a man. Whom she tried not to look at but could smell in all his smoky aromas—tobacco, incense, cannabis—swirling their way around him. A wiry old American pothead gone to grim seed. His name was Daniel Handler, according to the business card he wore safety-pinned to his shirt like a badge. He did not speak. He placed hot stones up and down her back and left them there. Did she think her belotioned flesh too private and precious to be touched by the likes of him? Are you crazy? The mad joy in her face was held over the floor by the massage-table headpiece, and at his touch her eyes filled with bittersweet tears, which then dripped out of her nose, which she realized was positioned perfectly by God as a little drainpipe for crying. The sad massage-hut carpet beneath her grew a spot. A heart could break, but perhaps you could move on to the next one, and the next, like a worm with its several hearts. Daniel left the hot stones on her until they went cold. As each one lost its heat, she could no longer feel it there on her back, and then its removal was like a discovery that it had been there all along: how strange to forget and then feel something only then, at the end. Though this wasn’t the same thing as the frog in the pot whose water slowly heats and boils, still it had meaning, she felt, the way metaphors of a thermal nature tended to. Then he took all the stones off and pressed the hard edges of them deep into her back, between the bones, in a way that felt mean but more likely had no intention at all. “That was nice,” she said, as he was putting all his stones away. He had heated them in a plastic electric Crockpot filled with water, and now he unplugged the thing in a tired fashion. “Where did you get those stones?” she asked. They were smooth and dark gray—black when wet, she saw. “They’re river stones,” he said. “I’ve been collecting them for years up in Colorado.” He placed them in a metal fishing-tackle box. “You live in Colorado?” she asked. “Used to,” he said, and that was that. On the last night of their vacation, her suitcase arrived like a joke. She didn’t even open it. Sam put out the little doorknob flag that said “WAKE US UP FOR THE SEA TURTLES.” The flag had a pre-printed request for a 3 A.M. wakeup call so that they could go to the beach and see the hatching of the baby sea turtles and their quick scuttle into the ocean, under the cover of night, to avoid predators. But though Sam had hung the flag carefully, and before the midnight deadline, no staff person woke them. And by the time they got up and went down to the beach it was ten in the morning. Strangely, the sea turtles were still there. They had hatched during the night and then hotel personnel had hung on to them, in a baskety cage, to show them off to the tourists who were too lazy or deaf to have got up in the night. “Look, come see!” a man with a Spanish accent who usually rented the scuba gear said. Sam, Beth, Dale, and Kit all ran over. (Rafe had stayed behind to drink coffee and read the paper.) The squirming babies were beginning to heat up in the sun; the goldening Venetian vellum of their wee webbed feet was already edged in desiccating brown. “I’m going to have to let them go now,” the man said. “You are the last ones to see these little bebés.” He took them over to the water’s edge and let them go, hours too late, to make their own way into the sea. And that’s when a frigate bird swooped in, plucked them, one by one, from the silver waves, and ate them for breakfast. Kit sank down in a large chair next to Rafe. He was tanning himself, she could see, for someone else’s lust. His every posture contained a strut. What bimbo had he wanted to give her ticket to? (Only later would she find out. “As a feminist, you mustn’t blame the other woman,” a neighbor would tell her. “As a feminist, I request that you no longer speak to me,” Kit would reply.) “I think I need a drink,” she said. The kids were swimming. “Don’t expect me to buy you a drink,” he said. Had she even asked? Did she now call him the bitterest name she could think of? Did she stand and turn and slap him across the face in front of several passers-by? Who told you that? When they finally left La Caribe, she was glad. Staying there, she had begun to hate the world. In the airports and on the planes home, she did not even try to act natural: natural was a felony. She spoke to her children calmly, from a script, with dialogue and stage directions of utter neutrality. Back home in Beersboro, she unpacked the condoms and candles, her little love sack, completely unused, and threw it in the trash. What had she been thinking? Later, when she had learned to tell this story differently, as a story, she would construct a final lovemaking scene of sentimental vengeance that would contain the inviolable center of their love, the sweet animal safety of night after night, the still-beating tender heart of marriage. But, for now, she would become like her unruinable daughters, and even her son, who, as he aged stoically and carried on in bottomless forgetting, would come to scarcely recall—was it even past imagining?—that she and Rafe had ever been together at all. 
Republica and Grau The blind man lived in a single room above a bodega, on a street not so far from Maico’s house. It was up a slight hill, as was everything in the neighborhood. There was nothing on the walls of the blind man’s room, nor was there anywhere to sit, and so Maico stood. He was ten years old. There was a single bed, a nightstand with a radio wrapped in duct tape, a washbasin. The blind man had graying hair and was much older than Maico’s father. The boy looked at his feet, and kicked together a small mound of dust on the cement floor while his father and the blind man spoke. The boy didn’t listen, but then no one expected him to. He was not surprised when a tiny black spider emerged from the insignificant pile he had made. It skittered across the floor and disappeared beneath the bed. Maico raised his eyes. A cobweb glittered in an upper corner. It was the room’s only decoration. His father reached out and shook the blind man’s hand. “So it’s agreed,” Maico’s father said, and the blind man nodded, and this was all. A week later, Maico and the blind man were in the city, at the noisy intersection of República and Grau. They had risen early on a winter morning of low, leaden skies, and made their way to the center, to this place of snarling, bleating traffic, in the shadow of a great hotel. The blind man carried a red-tipped cane, and he knew the route well, but once they arrived he folded the cane and left it in the grassy median. His steps became tentative, and Maico understood that the pretending had begun. The blind man’s smile disappeared, and his jaw went slack. Everything there was to know Maico learned in that first hour. The lights were timed: there were three minutes of work, followed by three minutes of waiting. When the traffic stopped, the blind man put one hand on the boy’s shoulder and with the other held out his tin, and together they walked up the row of idling cars. Maico led him toward the cars with windows rolled down, and the blind man muttered helplessly as he approached each one. Maico’s only job was to steer him toward those who were likely to give, and make sure that he did not waste time on those who would not. Women driving alone were, according to the blind man, preëmptively generous, hoping, in this way, to avoid being robbed. They kept small coins in their ashtrays for just such transactions. Taxi-drivers could be counted on as well, because they were working people, and men with women always wanted to impress and might let slip a few coins to show their sensitive side. Men driving alone rarely gave, and not a moment should be squandered beside a car with tinted windows. “If they know you can’t see them,” the blind man said, “they don’t feel shame.” “But they know you can’t see them,” Maico said. “And that’s why you’re here.” Maico’s mother hadn’t wanted him to work in the city, had said so the night before, but his father had bellowed and slammed a fist on the table. Of course, these gestures were hardly necessary; in truth, Maico didn’t mind the work. He even liked the pace, especially those moments when there was nothing to do but watch the endless traffic, soak in its dull roar. “Grau is the road people take to connect to the northern districts,” the blind man explained. He had the city mapped clearly in his mind. There was money to be made in the north: it was a region of people trying to better themselves. Not like the southern rich, who had forgotten where they’d come from. “It’s a generous intersection, this one,” the blind man said. “These people recognize me and love me because they have known me their entire lives. They give.” Maico listened as well as he could above the din. Me me me—that was what he heard. The cars and the engines and the blind man; it was all one sound. Acrid fumes hung over the intersection, so toxic that after only an hour Maico could feel a bubble in his chest, and then, in his throat, something tickling. He coughed and spat. He apologized, as his mother had taught him. The blind man laughed. “You’ll do much worse here, boy. You’ll cough and piss and shit and it will all be the same.” The clouds thinned out by noon, but that morning was cool and damp. The blind man kept all the money, periodically announcing how much they’d collected. It wasn’t much. Each time a coin was dropped into the tin, the blind man bowed humbly, and though he hadn’t been asked to, Maico did the same. The blind man emptied the tin into his pocket when the light changed, and warned Maico to watch out for thieves, but the boy saw only men hawking newspapers and chalkboards, women with baskets of bread or flowers or fruit, and the very density of people in the area made it seem safe. Everyone had been kind to him so far. A woman his mother’s age gave him a piece of bread with sweet potato because it was his first day. She tended to a few toddlers on the median. They were playing with a stuffed animal, taking turns tearing it to pieces. The stuffing spread across the grass in white clumps, and, when a truck rolled by, these were blown into the street. When the blind man found out that Maico had gone to school, he bought a newspaper and had the boy read it to him. He nodded or clucked his tongue while Maico read, and the stories were so absorbing that they even missed a few lights so that he could finish them. A judge had been murdered the previous day, in broad daylight, at a restaurant not far from where they sat. An editorial defended the life of a guard dog the authorities wanted put down for having killed a thief. There would be a new President soon, and protests were planned to welcome her. Music leaked from the windows of passing cars, and Maico could hear voices at each light singing along to a dozen different melodies. When he could, he studied the blind man’s face. Unshaven and olive-skinned, with puffy cheeks. His nose was crooked and squat. He didn’t wear dark glasses as some of the blind did, and Maico guessed that the sullen sheen of the man’s useless gray eyes was part of his value as a beggar. It was a competitive area, after all, and there were others working that morning whose qualifications for the position were clearly beyond question. Maico’s father was waiting at the door of the blind man’s room when they got back that afternoon. He winked at Maico, and then greeted the blind man gruffly, surprising him. “The money,” he said, with no warmth in his voice. “Let’s see it.” The blind man pulled out his key and patted the door for the lock. “Not here. Inside is better. You people with eyes are always so impatient.” Maico stood by while they divided the take. The counting went slowly. The blind man felt each coin carefully, then announced its worth out loud. When no one contradicted him, he continued, his hands moving with elegant assurance, organizing the money into piles on the bed. A few times, he misidentified a coin, but Maico felt certain that this was by design. The third time it happened, Maico’s father sighed. “I’ll count,” he said, but the blind man would have none of it. “That wouldn’t be fair, now, would it?” When the counting was done, Maico and his father walked home in silence. It had taken longer than they’d expected, and Maico’s father was in a hurry. When his mother asked how it had gone, his father sneered and said that there was no money. Or none worth mentioning. He prepared for his night shift while the boy and his mother ate dinner. The second day, it was the same, but on the third, when they walked down the hill, Maico’s father took the boy to the market and bought sodas for them both. An old gentleman with thick, calloused hands served them. Maico drank his soda through a straw. His father asked him how the work was, whether he liked it. By now, Maico was old enough to know that he should not say too much. He’d learned this from his mother. Did he like downtown? He did. And was he enjoying the work? He was. What was it like? Here, Maico chose his words carefully, explaining what he had absorbed in those few days. About charity, about traffic, about the relative generosity of cars headed north versus those headed south. Maico’s father listened calmly. He finished his soda, ordered a beer, then thought better of it. He looked at his watch, then scattered a few coins on the counter, and the old man swept them into his palm with a frown. “We’re being robbed,” Maico’s father said. “Do you hear me, boy? You’ve got to keep track of the money. You’ve got to add it up in your head.” Maico was quiet. “Are you listening to me? The blind man gets half. We get half.” The blind man had bought Maico a bag of popcorn that morning. After Maico had read him the paper, he had told stories about how the city had been when the air there was still sweet, when there was no traffic. The place he described seemed fantastical. “Even the intersection where we work was quiet once,” the blind man had said, smiling, because he knew this would be hard to believe. Now the boy looked up at his father. “You can’t let a blind man hustle you, son,” his father said. “It’s an embarrassment.” Maico did his best to keep an accurate count the next day, but by lunchtime the exhaust made him swoon. When he asked how much there was, the blind man said that he couldn’t know for sure. “I’ll count it later,” he said. “Count it now,” Maico said. The words came out with a certain snap that the boy liked. But the blind man just smiled. “Cute,” he said. “Now read the next story.” A horn blew, and then another, and soon there was a chorus. When the street was quiet enough, Maico opened the paper again. An entire village in the mountains had been poisoned during a festival. Bad meat. The Minister of Health was airlifting in medicine and doctors. Then the light changed, and it was time to work. Every afternoon, Maico’s father was there to meet them at the door of the blind man’s room. The money was never enough, and his father could not, or would not, hide his displeasure. Maico could sense it, knew with such certainty that it was coming, that when on the eighth day his father knocked the radio off the nightstand and said, “You stealing blind fuck!,” he felt that he had willed it to happen. His father, angry, was a sight to behold: that great red face, eyes open to the whites, fists like mallets. Maico wondered if the blind man could truly appreciate the spectacle. Was his father’s voice, the sharp edge of it, enough? If nothing else, the blind man understood the seriousness of the moment. He seemed neither surprised nor afraid when his pockets were emptied. The radio sputtered and died. Until it stopped, Maico hadn’t even noticed that it was on. They were back at work a few days later, with a new agreement. The boy would hold the money now. The coins weighed heavily in his pocket, so that the money felt like a lot more than it was. Just small, old, thin coins, worthless, worn-down coins, and when the work was done that day the blind man asked the boy to point him toward the hotel. It was sunny, and in the slanting afternoon light the hotel’s glowing glass exterior seemed to be made of gold. “Now let’s walk to it,” the blind man said. He knew the way, and he had collected his cane, but here, in front of their regular clientele, it was understood that the boy should continue to lead him. They crossed Grau together, the blind man’s hand on Maico’s shoulder. “On the far side of the hotel is a street. Read me the sign,” the blind man said. It was a narrow street. “Palomares,” Maico said. “Let’s walk down this one, boy. Away from Grau.” When they had crossed the second intersection, the blind man asked what was on each corner. Maico went clockwise: a bakery, a man selling roasted corn from a cart, an Internet café, a butcher shop. The blind man smiled. “Behind the cart, what is there?” “A bar.” “This bar—what’s it called?” “El Moíses.” “Let’s go in.” It was quiet in the bar, and the blind man asked Maico to choose the best table. The boy picked one by a window. El Moíses was just below street level, and the windows allowed a view of people’s legs as they passed. The smell of roasted corn on the cob filled the bar, and they hadn’t been there long before the blind man gave in and asked for two. He’d already finished his first beer by then. He gave one ear of corn to Maico and washed the other down with a second cold glass of beer. He spoke wistfully of the fights that had exploded before him in this very same space: of chairs thrown, of bottles broken and brandished as weapons, of the beautiful noise of conflict. You could hear it in the breathing of those around you—panic, fear, adrenaline. There were a dozen names for that extraordinary sensation. “What do you do when it happens?” Maico asked. “Well, you fight, of course.” “But what do you do?” “Ah, that’s what you mean. How does a blind man fight? I’ll tell you.” He spoke nearly in a whisper. “Recklessly. With whatever implement is at hand. Swinging wildly and searching desperately for an exit.” The blind man sighed. “I suppose it’s not so different for those who can see. More desperate, perhaps, or more reckless.” The waiter had turned on a radio, a low humming melody that Maico could not quite make out. They were the only people in the bar. “Tell me,” the blind man said after a while, “what do you look like? I should have asked sooner. Describe yourself.” No one had ever asked Maico such a thing. In fact, it wouldn’t have occurred to him that a question like that could even be asked. Describe himself. He thought for a moment, but nothing came to mind. “I’m a boy,” he managed. “I’m ten years old.” “More than that,” the blind man said. He took a swig from his beer. “I need more than that.” Maico squirmed in his chair. “What does your face look like? I know you’re small for your age. How are you dressed?” “Normal” was all the boy could say. “I’m dressed normal. I look normal.” “Your clothes, for example, your shirt—what material is it?” “I don’t know.” “Can I touch it?” the blind man said. Without waiting for an answer, he had already reached out and was testing the fabric of Maico’s shirt between his thumb and forefinger. “Is the color very faded?” “No,” Maico said. “Does your shirt have a collar?” “Yes.” “Are there holes in the knees of your pants?” “They’re patched.” “And are the pants hemmed?” “Yes.” The blind man grunted. “Your shirt is tucked in?” Maico looked down. It was. “And you’re wearing a belt, I assume. It’s leather?” “Yes.” The blind man sighed. He called for another beer, and when the glass was placed on the table he asked the waiter to stay for a moment. “Sir, excuse me,” he said, raising his right hand. He told Maico to stand, and then addressed the waiter again. “How would you describe the general appearance of this child?” The waiter was a serious, unsmiling man. He looked Maico over, from head to toe. “He’s dressed neatly. He looks clean.” “His hair—is it combed?” “Quite.” The blind man thanked him and told Maico to sit down. He drank his beer, and for a moment Maico thought that he wouldn’t speak again. On the radio, a new song started up, a voice accompanied by a bright, ringing guitar, and the blind man smiled and tapped his fingers against the table. He sang along, tra-la-la-ed for a moment when he didn’t know the words, and then fell silent altogether. “Your old man thinks he’s a tough guy,” he said finally, after the song had finished and the waiter had brought him another beer. “Here’s the problem. He goes off to work every night, and he doesn’t see you in the morning, and, meanwhile, your mother dresses you. She must be a nice woman. Very correct. But you’re a mama’s boy. Pardon me, son, but I must speak plainly. That’s why we don’t make money. You can’t beg looking like this.” Maico was silent. The blind man laughed. “Are you taking this hard?” “No,” Maico said. “Good. Very well.” The blind man nodded, and whistled for the waiter, who appeared at the table and announced what was owed. “Thank you, sir,” the blind man said, smiling in every direction. “A receipt, please. The boy will be paying.” That night, Maico’s father went into a rage. “Where’s the money? Where’s the money, you lazy little shit?” And what could he say except this: “I spent it,” the sentence escaping on its own, and his fear arriving as soon as those three words and the half-truth they expressed were audible. Fear spread outward from his chest, so that his arms felt light and useless, his stomach watery, and then his legs would not hold him up any longer. His mother, when she tried to intervene, was beaten as well, and there was a moment in that short, furious episode—an instant—when Maico felt certain that he would not survive. His mother’s screams told him that this was not like the other times, although if he had dared to open his eyes he would have known it for himself, from the savage look on his father’s face. Then there was noise and there was light, and Maico peeked and the room itself seemed to move. He was pushed and he stood, and he was shoved and he surprised himself by standing again, and this continued until he no longer could. All was quiet. Maico didn’t know how much time had passed, only that his father had gone. He opened his eyes. The glass door of the cabinet had been shattered, a chair leg snapped. There had been a storm, and now it had passed; inexplicably, there was no blood. His mother leaned against the far wall, not sobbing, just breathing, and Maico crawled toward her, and then he slept. Maico didn’t dream that night. The few hours of sleep he managed were blank and dark. He woke at dawn in his bed. His mother must have moved him. The blind man arrived the next morning, as if nothing had happened. Maico saw him and realized that he’d expected the man to be dead; he’d imagined that the fury his father had unleashed on him would be doubled or tripled for the blind man. Instead, the blind man wore the same contented look he’d had the afternoon before, when he left the boy at the bus stop, saying that he would make his own way home. There had been a softness to his words; he wasn’t drunk, Maico knew, but happy, as happy as Maico was humiliated, as happy as Maico was angry. “Go,” his mother said. “Go. We need the money,” and so Maico swallowed, and stretched his sore, wounded body. He stared angrily at the blind man, and then, with his mother sighing softly, he went. Maico knew the way by then. Knew it well. Knew the names of the streets they passed on their descent to the center, the turns they took, the intersections where the road was rutted and the bus shook. All the sights along the way, the determined faces of the men and women who got off and on, and the collective breath the bus took as they crossed the bridge just before the old center. In the rainy season, the thin, dirty stream beneath them would come to life—or a kind of life—but for now it was just an anemic trickle that would not make it to the sea. Boys his age ran along the riverbed; Maico could see them from the bus, tending to their oily fires. If he’d been asked, he could have described it all for the blind man, this city of dirt and smoke, but Maico supposed that the blind man knew this place better than he ever would. He didn’t read the paper that day, didn’t listen to the blind man’s stories as the avenue filled and emptied according to its own sombre rhythms. He waited for the blind man to apologize, though he knew that he wouldn’t. He didn’t bother to count the money before it disappeared into his pocket, and it was only when the skies began to clear, when the sun poured through a gaping hole in the clouds, that he realized that there had never been so much. Maico touched his face. His sore jaw, his bruised cheek, his right eye, not swollen shut but pinched so that he had to strain to keep it open. The blind man couldn’t know. Describe yourself. What do you look like? Beggar. He was surrounded by them, could see them now, this itinerant army of supplicants, waiting for a stroke of good luck, for some generous act to redeem the day or the week or the month. Counting, hour after hour, the careful arithmetic of survival: this much for food, this much if I walk home, this much for the children, for the house, for the soup, for the drink, for the roof over my head, this much to keep the cold at bay. Maico’s father spent his waking hours in another part of the city, engaged in much the same calculus, and if he had succeeded at anything it was in shielding the boy from this. “We’re doing well today, no?” the blind man said. He didn’t wait for an answer, just smiled dumbly and hummed a tune. Then the light changed, and the boy gathered himself and led the blind man again through the idling rows of traffic. The air was sweet with exhaust. A man driving alone dropped money into the tin. Maico stopped short. He turned to the blind man, faced him. “What are you doing?” the blind man asked. It wasn’t a question that Maico could have answered, even if he’d tried. There was no question of trying. Maico reached into his pocket, pulled out the money they’d earned that morning, the money they’d been given, and dropped a handful into the blind man’s tin, where it rattled wonderfully, heavily, falling with such abrupt weight that the blind man nearly let go. He said, “What’s wrong with you, boy?” But Maico was not listening, could hear nothing but the sound of the revving motors, and he watched in the glare for the light to change; another handful of coins, little ten-cent pieces, the bigger silver coins that really meant something—all of it Maico dropped into the tin. He read the confusion on the blind man’s face. The money was all gone now; he had none of it, and he began to step back and away from the blind man. “Where are you going? Where are you?” the blind man said, not pleading but not unconcerned. Maico steeled himself, and with a swift slap he upended the blind man’s tin, knocking it and the coins from the beggar’s hands and into the street. Some rolled under the idling cars, others nestled into the cracks in the pavement, and a few caught a glint of sun and shone and shone. But only for the boy. A moment later, the light had changed, and the traffic had resumed its northward progress. But even if it had not, even if every car in the city had waited patiently for the blind man to drop to his knees and pick up each of the coins, Maico would have seen something that made it all worthwhile. It was what the boy would remember, what he would replay in his mind as he walked away, across the bridge, and up the long hill toward home. The blind man, suddenly helpless—for a moment, he was not pretending. 
Stairway to Heaven It was a perfect African night, straight out of Conrad: the air was pasty and still with humidity; the night smelled of burned flesh and fecundity; the darkness outside was spacious and uncarvable. I felt malarial, though it was probably just travel fatigue. I envisioned millions of millipedes gathering on the ceiling above my bed, a fleet of bats flapping ravenously in the trees below my window. But the most troubling thing was the ceaseless roll of drums: a sonorous, ponderous thudding that hovered around me. Whether it meant war, peace, or prayer, I couldn’t tell. I was sixteen, at the age when fear arouses inspiration, so I turned on the light, dug a brand-new Moleskine journal out of my suitcase, and had just managed to write, on the first page, “Kinshasa 7.7.1983,” when I heard my parents’ bedroom door slam open and Tata cursing and stomping away. I leaped out of bed and followed him into the living room, where he had already flipped on the lights. I bumped into Mama, who was cradling her worrisome bosom in her arms; Sestra was there, too, pressing her face into Mama’s side. All the lights were on now; a gang of moths fluttered hopelessly inside a light fixture; there were cries and screams; cymbals crashed all around us. It was terrifying. “Spinelli,” Tata exclaimed. “What a dick.” Tata slept in flannel pajamas that were far more appropriate for an Alpine ski resort than for Africa—air-conditioning allegedly irritated his kidneys. Before he vanished into the thrumming murk of our building’s stairwell, he put on a pith helmet, lest his bald dome be exposed to drafts. I stood in my underwear, my pen still in hand. The possibility that he might not return flickered in the dark, but it did not occur to me to go after him. The stairwell light went on and we heard a plaintive chime. The drums continued to roll. Tata abandoned the bell and started pounding on the door, shouting in his stuttering English, “Spinelli, you are very crazy. Stop noise. We are sleep. It is four in the morning.” Our apartment was on the sixth floor; there must have been scores of people living in the building, but it appeared to have been abandoned. As soon as the stairwell light clicked off, the drumming stopped; the show was over. The door opened and a nasal American voice said, “I’m sorry, man. I absolutely apologize.” By the time I went back to bed, it was dawn already. In the trees outside, a nation of birds had replaced the bats and were now atwitter in a paroxysm of meaningless life. Sleep seemed beyond me; nor could I write. Smoking on the balcony, I waited for everything to make sense. Down on the street, a barely clad man squatted by a cardboard box with cigarettes lined up on top of it, as though he were guarding them from some invisible peril. In the early eighties, Tata was mostly absent from Sarajevo, working in Zaire as a minor Yugoslav diplomat in charge of communications (whatever that meant). Meanwhile, back home, I responded to the infelicities of adolescence and the looming iniquities of adulthood by retreating into books; Sestra, not yet a teen-ager, was oblivious of the aches sprouting inside me; Mama was mid-life, miserable and lonely, though I could not see this at the time, with my nose stuck in a book. I read compulsively, only occasionally surfacing to reality. I read all night, all day; at school I kept a book hidden under my desk, a felony frequently punished by a junta of class bullies who made me lick the pages until my tongue was black with ink. I met Azra while checking out books from the school library, and I immediately liked the readerly quietude on her bespectacled face. I walked her home, slowing down whenever I had something to say, stopping whenever she did. She had no interest in “The Catcher in the Rye”; I had not read “Quo Vadis,” feigned interest in “The Peasant Uprising.” We shared an interest in “The Dwarf from a Forgotten Country,” even though it was a children’s book. And it was clear that we also shared a passion for imagining lives that we could live through others—a necessary ingredient in any love. We started dating, which meant that we often read to each other on a bench by the Miljacka, making out only when we ran out of things to talk about, kissing cautiously, as though letting ourselves go would have exhausted the quaint, manageable intimacy we had accrued. So when Tata announced, on returning to Sarajevo for a leave, that we would all spend the summer of ’83 in Africa together, I felt a strange relief: if Azra and I were apart, we could resist temptation and eschew the taint that the body inflicts upon the soul. I promised I would write to her every day—in my journal, as letters from Africa would have arrived long after my return. I would record every thought, I told her, every feeling, every experience, and, as soon as I came back, we would reimagine it all together, reading, as it were, the same book. There were many things that I wanted to note down that first night in Kinshasa: the west ablaze, the east impenetrably dark as we crossed the equator at sunset; my perfect recollection of the smell of her hair; the line from a book that we had both liked so much—“I have to find my way home before the fall, before the leaves cover the path.” But I wrote nothing and assuaged my conscience by ascribing this failure to the drumming disturbance. What I didn’t write stayed in the back room of my mind, like the birthday presents I was not allowed to open until everyone had left the party. The following morning, I found Sestra in the living room, staring with vague fascination at a puny man in a T-shirt with an image of an angel pierced by an arrow in midair. Mama was sitting across the coffee table from the man, her legs crossed, listening intently to his high-pitched warbling. “Svratio komsija Spinelli,” she said. “Nemam pojma sta prica.” “Good morning,” I said. “Good afternoon, buddy,” Spinelli said. “The day is almost over.” He exposed a set of teeth that descended evenly in size, like organ pipes, from the center toward the cheeks. He had both of his hands parked on his thighs, and they were calmly immobile, as though resting before their next task—which was to push apart the two curls parenthesizing his forehead. “Sorry for the noise,” he said. “A bored dog does crazy things.” At sixteen, I spent a lot of energy affecting boredom: the eye-roll; the practiced blankness of expression; the terse, short answers to parental inquisition. I had built an iron-clad shield of indifference that allowed me to escape, roam, and return to my cell without anyone’s noticing. But that first week in Africa the boredom was real. I could not read; I kept scanning the same—twenty-seventh—page of “Heart of Darkness” and could not move beyond it. I tried to write to Azra, but could come up with nothing to say, probably because there was too much to say. There was certainly nothing to do. I was not allowed go out alone into the human jungle of Kinshasa. For a while I watched TV, broadcasts of Mobutu’s rants and commercials featuring cans of coconut oil floating in the blue sky of affordable happiness. Once or twice, in the middle of the day, I even felt a rare, inexplicable desire to be with my family, but Tata was at work, Sestra had her Walkman turned way up, and Mama was remote, interned in the kitchen, probably crying. The ceiling fan spun sluggishly, a cruel reminder that time here passed at the same mind-numbing speed. Tata was a great promiser, a fabulist of possibilities. In Sarajevo, he had projected onto the vast, blank canvas of our socialist provincialism a Kinshasa that was a hive of neocolonial pleasures: exclusive clubs with pools and tennis courts; diplomatic receptions frequented by the international jet set and spies; cosmopolitan casinos and exotic lounges; safaris in the wilderness; and Phillip, a native cook whom he had hired away from a Belgian by increasing his piddling wage to a slightly less piddling amount. That first uneventful week, these promises were drably betrayed; Phillip didn’t even show up for work. When Tata came home from the Embassy, we had humdrum dinners that Mama improvised from what she had discovered in the fridge: wizened peppers and sunken papayas, peanut paste and some kind of animal flesh that may have been goat meat. Determined to dispel the cloud of tedium hanging over us, Tata finally put in a call to the Yugoslav Ambassador and invited himself and us to the Ambassador’s residence in Gombe, where all the important diplomats lived. The mansions there were large, with wide lawns and majestic flowers blooming in impeccably groomed bushes; the venerable Congo flowed serenely. His Excellency and his excellent wife were polite and devoid of any human vigor. We sat in their receiving room, and the adults passed around statements (“Kinshasa is strange”; “Kinshasa is really small”) as if handing around a sugar bowl. Exotic trophies were carefully positioned around the room: a piece of Antwerp bobbin lace on the wall; an ancient Mesopotamian rock on the coffee table; on the bookshelf a picture of their Excellencies on a snowcapped mountain. A servant with an implausible red sash brought in the drinks—Sestra and I were each given a glass of lemonade with a long silver spoon. I didn’t dare to move, and when Sestra, abruptly and inexplicably, rolled like a happy dog on the ankle-deep Afghan rug I feared that our parents would renounce us. As soon as we returned home, I went up to Spinelli’s place. He did not seem surprised to see me, nor did he ask what had brought me around. “Come on in,” he said, smoking, a drink in his hand, music blasting behind him. I lit up; I had not smoked all day, and I was starved for nicotine. The smoke descended into my lungs like feathery silk, then out, thickly, through my nose; it was so beautiful I was breathless. Spinelli was air drumming along to the loud music, a cigarette dangling from his lips. “ ‘Black Dog,’ ” he said. “God damn.” In the far corner, under the window, there was a set of drums; its golden cymbals trembled in the stream from the air-conditioner. Between his imaginary drum solos and bridges, Spinelli made unsolicited confessions: he had grown up in a rough Chicago neighborhood and beat it as soon as he could; he had lived in Africa forever; he worked for the U.S. government and could not tell me what his job was, for if he did he would have to kill me. He started each sentence sitting down and finished it standing up. He never stopped moving. Space organized itself around him; he exuded so much of himself that I felt absent. Only after I had left his apartment, exhausted, could I really think at all. And then I thought that he was a true American, a liar and a braggart, and that hanging out with him was far more stimulating than the shackles of family life or the excellent diplomats in Gombe. At some point during his restless monologue, he christened me, for no apparent reason, Blunderpuss. I went back upstairs a couple of days later, and then again the following day. Mama and Tata seemed fine with that; if I removed my boredom, we could avoid long stretches of crabby silence. They must also have thought that engaging with the real world and its inhabi-tants without actually leaving the building was good for me, and I got to practice my English, too. As for me, I could smoke as much as I wanted at Spinelli’s; the music was much louder than my parents would ever have permitted; and he poured more whiskey into my glass before it was even half empty. But most of all I enjoyed his stories: he delivered them slouching back on the sofa, blowing smoke toward the ceiling fan, sipping his J&B, interrupting his delivery for every drum solo. There may be a taint of death, a flavor of mortality, in lies, but Spinelli’s were fun to listen to. In high school, he’d run a cigarette-selling business and had regular sex with his geography teacher. He’d hitchhiked across America: in Oklahoma, he’d drunk with Indians who fed him mushrooms that took him to where their spirits lived—the spirits had big asses with two holes, both of which smelled equally of shit; in Idaho, he’d lived in a cave with a guy who watched the sky all day long, waiting for a fleet of black helicopters to descend upon them; he’d smuggled cattle from Mexico into Texas, cars from Texas to Mexico. Then he’d joined the Army: avoiding rough deployment by applying onion to his dick so as to fake an infection; whoring around in Germany, cutting up a Montenegrin pimp in a disco. Then Africa: sneaking into Angola to help out Savimbi’s freedom fighters; training the Ugandan special forces with the Israelis; setting up a honey trap in Durban. He told his tales laterally, moving across his life without regard for chronology. Afterward, I would lie in my bed, trying to organize his stream of consciousness in my giddy head so that I could write it down for Azra. Only then could I see the loopholes in the texture of his tales, the inconsistencies and contradictions and the plain bullshit. Once I was out of his proximity, he made little sense; he had to be physically present in his own narratives to make them plausible. Therefore I sought his presence; I kept going upstairs. One night when I went upstairs, Spinelli was all dressed and ready to go, wearing a black unbuttoned shirt, reeking of cologne, a gold chain dangling below his Adam’s apple. He lit a cigarette in the doorway, inhaled, and said “Let’s go!” and I followed without a question. It did not even cross my mind to tell my parents where I was going. They never came to check on me when I was at Spinelli’s. It turned out that we were going to a casino around the corner. “The guy who owns the casino is Croatian,” Spinelli said. “Used to be in the Foreign Legion, fought here, then in Biafra. I don’t wanna know the things he did. We do business sometimes, and his daughter likes me pretty well, too.” I could not see his lips moving as we walked; his voice was disembodied. We turned the corner and there was a splendid neon sign that said “PLAYBOY CASINO,” the “S” and the final “O” flickering uncertainly. A few white cars and military Jeeps were parked in the gravel lot. On the stairs were several hookers in ridiculously high heels, neither climbing nor descending, as if they were afraid they might fall if they moved. But move they did as we passed; one of them grabbed my forearm and turned me toward her. She wore a helmetlike purple wig, and earrings as elaborate as Christmas ornaments; her breasts were pushed up by her tiny bra, so that I could see half of her left nipple. I stood petrified until Spinelli released me from her grip. “You don’t fuck much, do you, Blunderpuss?” he said. Three men were sitting at the roulette table, all plainly drunk, their heads falling on their chests between the revolutions of the wheel. A heavy fog of masculine recklessness hung over the table, the green of the felt fractured by piles of colorful chips. One of the men won and snapped out of his torpor long enough to gather up the chips with both arms, as though embracing a child. “Watch the croupier steal from them,” Spinelli said with delight. “They’re going to lose it all before they get another drink, then they’ll lose some more.” I did watch the croupier, but could not see how the stealing happened: when the players won, he pushed the chips toward them; when they lost, he raked the pile toward himself. It all seemed simple and honest, but I believed Spinelli. I had already started composing a description of the place for Azra: the cone of smoke rising to the light above the blackjack table; the hysterical flashing of the two slot machines in the corner; the man standing at the bar in the attire of a plantation owner—a light linen suit and a straw hat—his right hand hanging down like a sleeping dog’s head, a ribbon of cigarette smoke passing slowly between his knuckles. “Let me introduce you to Jacques,” Spinelli said. “He’s the boss.” Jacques put the cigarette in his mouth, shook Spinelli’s hand, then looked me over without saying a word. “This is Blunderpuss—he’s Bogdan’s kid,” Spinelli said. Jacques’s face was perfectly square, his nose triangular; his neck was a stovepipe of flesh. His expression bespoke the chummy ruthlessness of someone whose life was organized around profit and survival; as far as he was concerned, I did not exist in the world of straightforward facts. He put out his cigarette and, in English marred with clunky Croatian consonants, said to Spinelli, “What I am going to do with those bananas? They are rotting.” Spinelli looked at me, shook his head in bemused disbelief, and said, “Put them in a fruit salad.” Jacques grinned back at him and said, “Let me tell you joke. Mother has very ugly child, horrible, she goes on train, sits in coupe. People come in her coupe, they see child, is very ugly, they cannot look, they leave, go away, disgusting child. Nobody sits with them. Then comes man, smiles at mother, smiles at child, sits down, reads newspapers. Mother thinks, Good man, likes my child, is real good man. Then man takes one banana and asks mother, ‘Does your monkey want banana?’ ” Spinelli didn’t laugh, not even when Jacques repeated the punch line: “Does your monkey want banana?” Instead, he asked him, “Is Natalie here?” I followed Spinelli through a beaded curtain into a room with a blackjack table and four players; they all wore uniforms, one of them sand khaki, the other three olive green. Natalie was the dealer, her fingers long and limber as she placed the cards; her pallor was luminous in the dark room; her arms were skinny, with no muscles whatsoever; she had bruises on her forearms, scratches on her biceps. On her shoulder she had a vaccination mark, like the imprint of a small coin. Spinelli sat at the table and nodded at her, slamming a cigarette pack against his palm. Her cheeks rose, quotation marks forming around her smile. She raised her hand gently, as though lifting a veil, and scratched her forehead with her pinkie. She blinked slowly, calmly, as though pulling her long eyelashes apart required effort. I was enthralled. Natalie was from out of this world, a displaced angel. From then on, for a while, there were three of us. We went places: Spinelli driving his Land Rover, drumming on the wheel, slapping the dashboard, calling Natalie his Monkeypie; Natalie smoking in the passenger seat, looking out; I in the back, the breeze from the open window blowing her smoke, her intoxicating smell, directly into my face. The three of us: Spinelli, Monkeypie, Blunderpuss, like characters in an adventure novel. One day, we went to the Cité to look for Phillip, who still hadn’t shown up for work. Presumably, this was a means for Spinelli to expiate his drumming sins, arranged between Tata and him. Spinelli and Natalie picked me up at the crack of dawn, the light still diffused by the residue of the humid night. We drove toward the slums, against a crowd marching in antlike columns: men in torn shorts and shirts; women wrapped in cloth, carrying baskets on their heads; swollen-bellied children trotting by their side; emaciated dogs following at a hopeful distance. I had never seen anything so unreal in my life. We turned off onto a dirt road, which became a car-wide path full of mounds and gullies. The Land Rover stirred up a galaxy of dust, even when moving at low speed. Shacks misassembled from rusty tin and cardboard were lined up above a ditch, about to tumble in. I understood what Conrad had meant by “inhabited devastation.” A woman with a child tied to her back dipped clothes into tea-colored water and beat the wet tangle with a tennis racquet. Soon a shouting mob of kids was running after the car. “Check this out,” Spinelli said and hit the brakes. The kids slammed into the back of the Land Rover; one of them fell on his ass. “Oh, stop it!” Natalie said. As soon as the car got up some speed, the kids were running after it again; they didn’t often see a Land Rover in the Cité. Spinelli hit the brakes again, slapping his thigh with glee. I could see the face of the tallest boy smash against the glass, blood blurting out of his nose. Spinelli’s laughter was deep-chested, like the bark of a big dog. It was infectious; I was roaring with laughter myself. We stopped in front of a church, where a choir was singing with sombre voices. Spinelli went in to leave a message for Phillip while Natalie and I stayed in the car. He pushed his way through the kids, who parted, murmuring, “Mundele, mundele.” “It means skinless,” Natalie said. The tall boy was still bleeding, but he could not take his eyes off Natalie. She took a picture of him; he wiped his bloody nose and turned away. “You’re gonna have to get yourself a new cook, Blunderpuss,” Spinelli said, climbing into his seat. “That’s Phillip’s funeral they’re singing for.” From the Cité we went to the market—Le Grand Marché—and wandered around; it was too early to go home. Bartering in Lingala and English, Spinelli pretended to be interested in a dried monkey, whose hands grasped nothingness with unappetizing despair; he picked through yams but didn’t buy any. Natalie took pictures of terrified goats waiting to be slaughtered, of eels still fidgeting in a beaten pot, of worms squirming in a shoebox. These people had no abstract concept of evil, Spinelli said. For them, it was black magic coming from a particular person, so if you wanted to get rid of the evil spell you eliminated the guy. The same thing with the good: it was not something you could aspire to, the way we did; you either had it or you didn’t. He delivered his anthropological lecture while bargaining over an enormous, baroque cluster of bananas, which he bought for nothing and loaded onto his shoulder. You couldn’t die of hunger here, he said, because bananas and papayas grew everywhere like weeds. That was why these people had never learned to work; they’d never had to harvest and store food to survive. A mass of people followed us, offering things we could not possibly need: toilet brushes, knitting needles, figurines carved out of what Spinelli claimed was human bone. I bought a bracelet made of elephant hair and ivory, a gift for Azra. Later that day, we went to the Inter-Continental and sat in the lounge, where a ponytailed pianist played “As Time Goes By.” We ordered colorful cocktails with tiny umbrellas stuck into unknown fruit. There were men in Zairean attire: wide collars, bare chests adorned with gold, hands bejewelled. Spinelli called them the Big Vegetables; they liked to stick out of Mobutu’s ass, he said. Those expensive white whores with them came from Brussels or Paris; they spread their legs for two or three months, then took a little pouch of diamonds back home to live it up for the rest of the year. And that man over there was Dr. Slonsky, a Russian who had come twenty years ago, when you had to import ass-wipes from Belgium. He used to be Mobutu’s personal physician, but now he only did the Big Vegetables; Mobutu had a Harvard graduate taking care of him these days. Slonsky liked heroin and boys, Spinelli said. Natalie sucked at her straw, as if she had heard it all already. Then there was Towser the Brit; his wife worked at the British Embassy. And that scruffy youngster sitting next to him was their Italian boyfriend. They were talking to Millie and Morton Fester, New Yorkers who dealt in tribal art, most of it pilfered away from the natives by the Big Vegetables. Millie wrote fancy porn novels; Morton used to be a photographer for National Geographic, trawling the Dark Continent for images. Spinelli actually waved at them and Morton waved back. Somehow, the waving confirmed Spinelli’s stories, as though he had conjured them into existence with the motion of his hand. Then we were joined by Fareed, a Lebanese whose head was as smooth as a billiard ball and whom Spinelli affectionately called Dicknose. He bought us a round of drinks, and, before I could even agree to it, we went up to Dicknose’s room, where he opened a black briefcase for us. Inside was a velvet cloth, which he unwrapped, proudly exhibiting a tiny heap of uncut diamonds, sparkling like teeth in a toothpaste commercial. They had just arrived from Kasai, Dicknose said, fresh from the bowels of the earth. Natalie touched the heap with her fingertips; her nails were bitten to a bloody pulp. “All you need to make your girlfriend here happy, Blunderpuss, is twenty-five thousand dollars,” Spinelli said. Natalie looked at me and smiled, as if confirming the price. From the Inter-Continental, we drove to Spinelli’s place, past the American Embassy, a large building surrounded by a tall wall. Bored guards smoked behind the iron-grille gate. On top of the Embassy there was a nest of sky-begging antennas. I imagined a life of espionage and danger; I imagined the letters I would send to Azra from behind enemy lines. They would be signed with a false name, but she would recognize my handwriting: When you get this letter, my dear, I will be far beyond the reach of your love. “This is where I defend freedom so I can pursue happiness,” Spinelli said. “One day I’ll take you there, Blunderpuss.” As we climbed the stairs of our building, I passed the apartment where my family was likely having dinner, but it felt as though they were not there, as though our place were empty. The absence could have been frightening, but I was too excited to care. Spinelli went straight to his magnetophone and turned it on. The reels started revolving slowly, disinterestedly. “Ladies and gentlemen, ‘Immigrant Song’!” he hollered and then howled along with the music: “Aaaa Aaaa Aaaaaaa Aaaa Aaaaaa!” I put my hands over my ears to signal my suffering, and Natalie laughed. Still screaming, Spinelli rummaged through the debris on his coffee table until he found what I believed was a joint of marijuana. He interrupted his howl to light it up, suck on it briskly, and pass it on to Natalie. I was innocent in the ways of drugs, but when Natalie, holding her breath so that her eyes were bulging and somehow bluer for that, offered it to me, I took it and inhaled as much as I could. Naturally, I coughed it all out immediately, saliva and phlegm erupting from me. Her laughter was snorty, pushing her cheek apples up, dilating her nostrils. A chenille of snot hung from my nose, nearly reaching my chin. “If you can’t stand the heat, Blunderpuss,” Spinelli whinnied, “stay out of the oven.” Well, I was enjoying the oven and once the cough subsided I sipped the smoke from the joint and kept it in my lungs, waiting for the high to arrive. Spinelli sat at his drum set and grabbed the sticks. He listened intently to a different song now, waiting, biting his lips to express passion. “The greatest goddam bridge in the history of rock and roll,” he said, and attacked the timpani. I recognized the beat: it was what had frightened us on our first night in Kinshasa. “What’s the name of that song?” I asked. “ ‘Stairway to Heaven,’ ” Spinelli said. “It sounds so African.” “That ain’t African. That’s Bonzo, white as they come.” Natalie took the joint from my hand; her fingers were soft and cold, her touch eerily gentle. I leaned back and stared at the fan revolving frenziedly, as though a helicopter were buried upside down in the ceiling. Spinelli stopped drumming to take a puff. “See,” he said, exhaling, “you’re just an innocent kid, Blunderpuss. When I was your age, I did things I wouldn’t do now, but I did them then, so I don’t have to do them now.” He was rewinding the tape, pressing the “stop” and the “play” buttons alternately, trying to find the beginning of the song. “There’s so much you don’t know, son. You have no idea how much you don’t know. Before you know anything, you have to know what you don’t know.” “I know.” “The fuck you do.” “Leave him alone,” Natalie said, dreamily. “Shut up, Monkeypie.” He took another puff, spat on the minuscule butt, and flicked it toward the ashtray on the coffee table, missing by a yard. Then he asked me, “Why are you here?” “Here? In Kinshasa?” “Forget Kinshasa, Blunderpuss. Why are you here on this goddam planet? Do you know?” “No,” I had to admit. “I don’t.” Natalie sighed, as though she knew where it was all heading. “Exactly,” Spinelli said. “That’s exactly your problem.” “Are you O.K., sweetheart?” Natalie asked me, extending her hand, but she couldn’t reach me and I couldn’t move. “I feel nothing,” I said. “Stairway to Heaven” was picking up, the drums kicking in. “That’s the way!” Spinelli leaped in excitement. “There is always a tunnel at the end of the light.” By this time he was leaning over me, blocking my view of the ceiling fan. “Steve,” Natalie said without conviction. “Leave him alone.” “He is alone,” Spinelli said. “We live as we dream. Fucking alone.” “That’s Conrad,” I said. “What’s that?” “That’s Joseph Conrad.” “No, no, no, no, no, sir. That ain’t no Joe Conrad. That’s the truth.” He played the “Stairway to Heaven” bridge over my head, closing his eyes, curling his lower lip. Natalie slipped her hand under her cheek and closed her eyes, producing a celestial smile. He dropped down next to me, his back to Natalie’s stomach. “There’s a tribe here,” he went on, his voice lowered, “that believes that the first man and woman slid down from the sky on a rope. God let them down on a rope, they untied themselves, and the boss pulled the rope up. And that’s exactly what happened, my friend. We were dropped down here and we wanna go back up, but there’s no rope. So here you are, Blunderpuss, and the rope is gone.” He spread his arms to point at our surroundings: the coffee table with its pile of formerly glossy National Geographics; an overflowing ashtray and a bottle of J&B; ebony sculptures of stolid elephants and twiggy warriors, one of them draped in a T-shirt. “But we can at least try to get up as high as possible,” he said, and he excavated a tinfoil nugget from his pocket, unwrapped it with delectation, and showed me a lump of green paste at its heart. “That’s why God gave us Afghanistan.” The day I smoked pot for the first time was the day I smoked hashish for the first time. He chipped slivers off the lump, then stuffed it down the narrow bowl of a clay pipe, murmuring to himself, “Yessiree bob!” This time I had no trouble inhaling and releasing the smoke impressively slowly. “I’m here,” Natalie said, and I passed the pipe to her. She smoked on her back, her eyes still closed. The smoke crawled out of her mouth, as though she were not breathing at all. “See, I was much like you when I was a kid,” Spinelli said. “And here I am now.” My head and stomach were completely empty. I tried to inhale air to fill up the vacuum inside me, but it didn’t work. I was gasping, as though rapidly deflating, and it sounded like a giggle—I heard myself as someone else. “You might wanna munch on a banana or something,” Spinelli said. “You’re pale as shit.” Abruptly he stood up and charged off to the kitchen. Natalie’s face was ashen, her lips pink; a single hair stretched from her forehead to her mouth. Before I could make any decision, I leaned toward her, planting a kiss where the hair touched her lip. She opened her eyes and widened her smile until I could see the tip of her tongue protruding between her teeth. I retreated into my throne of stupor just as Spinelli came back with a huge, blazingly yellow banana. He offered it to me and said, “Would the monkey like a banana?” The monkey ate the banana, promptly passed out, and dreamed of two women, one fat, one slim, knitting black wool to the rhythm of drums, chanting angrily, “Spinelli! Spinelli! Spinelli!” Whereupon I woke up to see Tata in his pith helmet and flannel pajamas shaking an enraged, ruddy finger in Spinelli’s face. Spinelli had his hands on his hips and they slowly curled into fists; he was about to punch my father. Natalie sat up and said, “Steve, let it go. Let Bogdan take the boy home.” The hair on the right side of her head was bunched up in the shape of a harp, or half a heart. “All right, man, I apologize. We were just partying a little,” Spinelli said. “Hopefully, it’s all bridge under the water.” Walking downstairs was much like crossing an underwater bridge: an invisible stream pushed against my knees; I could not feel the solid concrete under my feet. Tata practically carried me, his hands grasping my flesh sternly. He was talking to me, but I could hear only the tone of his voice: angry, quivering. Downstairs, Mama and Sestra sat on the couch like a two-member jury; Sestra watched me with slumberous amusement; Mama’s face was awash with tears. For some reason, it was all funny to me, and, when Tata dropped me into the armchair across from them, I slid down to the floor and convulsed with laughter. Later on, in the middle of the night, I tottered to the kitchen, found the trash bin in the darkness, pressed the pedal to open the lid, and pissed a thick, pleasurable stream into its mouth. There was no talk given by my parents, no warning about drugs and alcohol, no lecture about self-respect, no complaint about having to clean up the piss lake on the kitchen floor. They just stared at me, mute, across the dinner table: Tata pursed his lips, contemplating the troubling question of my future; Mama pressed her hand against her cheek, shaking her head in disbelief at her extraordinary bad luck in having had such a son. I was forced to go everywhere they went: to the Lolo La Crevette, where we devoured shrimp with a malarial Macedonian prone to delivering unhurried reports on his talkative cockatoo; to the Portuguese club, where I watched two decrepit Frenchmen play tennis, a skinny boy fetching their scattershot balls; to the Belgian supermarket, pristinely overlit, where everyone was immaculately white, as though the place had been magically transported from the pallid heart of Brussels. I carried “Heart of Darkness” around and tried to read it when no one was talking to me, which was far from often enough. All I wanted was to be alone. I was alone only when I smoked on my balcony in the tarrish heat, hoping to catch sight of Spinelli or Natalie on the street, but I never did. There was no shuffling of feet upstairs, no slamming of doors, no drumming or hollering along to Led Zeppelin. When I thought of our time together, I could not recall our doing anything or being anywhere. All I could recollect was the sound of Spinelli’s voice reciting his adventures: Spinelli going up the Congo with a crew of mercenaries, looking for a fallen Soviet satellite; Spinelli in Angola, submerged in a shallow river, like a hippo, invisible to a Cuban patrol; Spinelli in a Durban restaurant, spooning raw monkey brain out of a cut-open skull. One Sunday, we went to the Czech Ambassador’s garden party in Gombe. There was beer and champagne, marakuja juice and punch; there were piles of niblets and fruit, offered on vast trays by a couple of humble servants; there were the blond twin daughters of the Romanian Ambassador; there was our Excellency and his wife, and a lot of wily Communist kids scurrying around and taunting an angry chimpanzee in a cage by the garden shed. I wanted to find a quiet spot to read, but Tata compelled me to join a volleyball game. We were on the same team as the Romanian twins, and a squat Bulgarian whose many gold chains rattled every time he missed the ball. Fortunately, there was also a Russian named Anton, tall and lanky, potato-nosed, gray-eyed. He was by far our best player and handily destroyed the other team. He showed me how to make my fingers flexible so that the ball would float high enough for Tata to smack it into the Ambassador’s excellently flabby flesh. Anton was the only man who did not smoke or drink after the game; he knew how to stay in control. I followed him and Tata to a table under an enormous umbrella; they spoke Russian together, and Anton’s voice was deep and curt, used to giving orders. He tapped on the table with an agitated finger and Tata threw up his arms; I thought I heard him say Spinelli’s name. When I turned around, I saw Natalie walking barefoot toward me in a diaphanous white dress, and a flare of hope went off in my chest, but it was just one of the Romanian twins, guzzling beer out of a large mug, two streaks curving from the corners of her mouth toward her bepimpled chin. Soon thereafter we went east for the promised safari. A man was waiting for us on the tarmac of the Goma airport; we saw him as soon as we stepped out of the plane. He wore dark shades, a white shirt, and a black tie; he walked up to Tata and shook his hand diplomatically, as though welcoming a dignitary. His name was Carlier; he assured us that he was at our service and kissed Mama’s hand as she was trying to extract it from his grip. He stroked Sestra’s hair and nodded at me, as if he thought I was tough and he respected it. Carlier was slurring his words and I could not tell whether it was his accent or whether he was drunk. Except for his shades and a large diamond ring on his middle finger, he resembled a butcher in a poor neighborhood: he had a heavy, fat-rounded head, large ears with meaty earlobes, blood speckles on his mercilessly scraped face. He bribed our way through the ovenlike airport, extending his money-stuffed hand to uniformed officers. Outside, he chased away a swarm of cabbies and crap-hawkers and led us to a van next to which a man stood at attention in a suit with a tightly knotted tie. Carlier barked at him and he leaped to open the door for us. The streets of Goma were enveloped in roiling clouds of black dust. In an uncanny moment, I realized that everyone in sight was barefoot and, for a moment, I could not remember what the purpose of shoes was. But then I saw booted policemen standing on the porches, leaning on walls, like idle villains in Westerns, and the world of straightforward facts was restored. When we stopped to let a skittish herd of goats pass, nobody approached the van to offer us carved human bones or knitting needles. “You make a right turn here,” Carlier said, “and you are in Rwanda.” We turned left, got out of town, and drove through the fields of black lava rock surrounding intermittent islands of jungle verdure. A gray mountain beyond the green-and-black landscape exuded smoke; the earth seemed unearthly. “Nyiragongo,” Carlier said, as if the word were self-explanatory. The Karibu Hotel consisted of huts scattered along the shore of Lake Kivu, which, Carlier told us gleefully, contained no life: the last time Nyiragongo had erupted, the volcanic gases had killed every living creature in it. Sestra and I shared one of the huts, which was redolent of clean towels, insecticide, and mold. As she unpacked, humming to herself, I stared out the window: a pirogue glided unhurriedly on the waveless water; the sky and the lake were welded together seamlessly; a pale moon levitated in the haze. The sun was setting somewhere; it seemed as if everything were returning to darkness after an unhappy day out. The ban on my wandering seemed to be suspended here; I left Sestra sprawling on her bed, happily attached to her Walkman. “Heart of Darkness” in hand, I took an uphill path past the other bungalows. I was hoping to escape dinner with my family. On the way from the airport, they had felt as foreign to me as if they were hired actors mindlessly performing gestures of care and kinship: Tata in his absurd pith helmet, Mama smirking, routinely afraid of the future, Sestra approaching everything with pointless curiosity. I could remember that I used to love them, but I could not remember why, and I was terrified. The carefully trimmed hedges were moist with dusk; low, mushroomlike lanterns flickered along the path. I walked onto a terrace extending from a vast dining hall. At its center, like an altar, was a table laden with food and flowers. And there, with his back to me, picking up slices of meat and chunks of fruit, mounding them on his plate, was Steve Spinelli. I recognized his triangular torso and narrow hips, his clawlike curls and cowboy boots. For a blink, I considered sneaking out, but then he turned—a veritable hillock of victuals on his plate—and looked at me with no surprise whatsoever. “Look what the bitch dragged in,” he said. He walked out onto the terrace and I went with him to his table; he offered me a seat and I took it, determined to leave before Tata caught me there. Without being asked, I said, “We are going to the Virunga National Park tomorrow, for a safari.” “It’s a fun world, Blunderpuss,” Spinelli said. “Getting funner every day.” “Is Natalie with you?” “She is.” “Why are you here?” He chewed heartily, with his mouth open, ignoring me. Between forkfuls, he puffed on a cigarette. “For a vacation,” he said. “And, who knows, there might be some business to be done.” I grabbed his Marlboros and lit up. The possibility that the cigarette might be drug-laced crossed my mind, but it tasted good. He seemed to speak to me from a space in which no life mattered—all the roles had already been assigned and I did not know what mine was. I fidgeted and tapped the ashes off my cigarette until the ember broke off. “I hear that you’re a good volleyball player,” he said. “Did you like Antonyka?” “How do you know him?” “I know a lot of people. Anton is a remarkable gentleman, as well as a Communist cocksucker.” He waved at Carlier, who was just walking into the dining hall, accompanied by a tall man with sideburns and a scaphander-like Afro. Carlier spoke to the man brusquely, pointing at the meat tray, then at the flowers—there was some disorder to be redressed. “I know Carlier, too, for example,” Spinelli went on. “We used to run guns to Angola together.” The man took notes, looking at Carlier with dismay that tightened the muscles and sinews in his forearms. I envisioned him suddenly punching Carlier’s face in, blood spraying onto his white shirt. “Your dad also played with you and Anton, didn’t he?” Spinelli said. “I bet you played pretty good together.” Carlier dropped into the chair next to Spinelli. He pulled a pipe out of his breast pocket and picked some detritus from its mouth with his pinkie, but didn’t light it. “Whipping would be too good for Monsieur Henry,” he said peevishly. “One day, Carlier, he’s gonna slit your throat,” Spinelli said. “And I’ll cry over your corpse till I can piss no more.” Scoffing with approbation, Carlier picked up my book, looked at it without interest, and put it down. I took it and bid them good night. The mushroom lamps cast a feeble light on the path, but not on anything else. The lava gravel crunched under my feet. Obscure creatures rustled in the black trees and bushes. The sky was splattered with stars, smeared with the Milky Way. I was lost; I could not remember the number of my hut, which was identical to all the others; the path seemed to go in circles. I don’t know why I behaved like a lunatic. I heard footsteps coming down the path behind me; I stepped off into the darkness and ducked behind a tree, with a precise clarity of action, as though somebody had already done it once and I was just repeating his motions. Whatever was in the tree shuffled its way up; I dropped my book. The footsteps stopped. “Come out, Blunderpuss. I can see you.” I was afraid to move or look at him, exhaling until I was out of air, then inhaling through my nostrils, getting light-headed and elated, as though that were the way to make myself invisible. Something fell on my head from above—a leaf, an insect, monkey hair—but I did not brush it off. It was so easy here to forget everything, to lose all bearing. I stepped out onto the path. “Let’s go and say hi to Monkeypie,” Spinelli said. “She’d love to see you.” “Maybe later,” I said. “I must go.” “She’s crazy about you, you know. She talks about you all the time. She’d love to see you.” He put his arm around my shoulders; I felt the weight of his forearm on my neck as he softly pushed me forward. Their room smelled of burned sugar; the ceiling fan was dead. Natalie lay on her side, her hand tucked between the pillow and her cheek, her tranquil face lit by the bedside lamp. Around her biceps a loose rubber rope twisted. On the nightstand there was a syringe and a spoon and a lit candle. I was an instant behind myself: I saw what it all was, but the thought could not encrust itself with meaning. Spinelli caressed her forehead with the back of his hand and moved a stray hair from her cheek. “She is beautiful, isn’t she, so peaceful,” he said. “Would you like to fuck her?” “I don’t know,” I said. “I don’t think so.” “She’s a little out of touch, but she’d love it, believe me.” “No, thank you.” “What’s your problem, Blunderpuss? When I was your age, I had a hard-on twenty-four/seven.” He stood above her with his hands on his hips. I couldn’t move, until my knees got so weak I sat down next to Natalie, my back to her; she did not flinch when I leaned on her belly. I had reached the farthest point of navigation. Dear Azra, The leaves have covered my path. I do not know if I will ever see you again. “You can’t get it up, can you?” he said, chortling. “You can’t get it up. Let me show you something.” He quickly unfastened his eagle-buckled belt and let his jeans drop. His dick stood in my face like an erected cannon. Its head was perfectly purple; the blue veins seemed to be throbbing. “A solid torpedo and ready to explode,” Spinelli said and stroked it. “Do you wanna touch it? C’mon, touch it.” Natalie sighed but did not open her eyes; the candle flickered, nearly going out. With indescribable effort, I finally stood up and pushed him away. “Hey!” he said, stumbling backward with his pants at his ankles. Still, I expected him to grab me from behind. I was ready for him to smash my head against the door until I blacked out, but nothing happened. Outside, a tremulous wake of light stretched itself toward the cataractous moon. My heart was playing the bridge from “Stairway to Heaven,” but beyond the noise in my veins, beyond my limp limbs, beyond my clammy skin, there was a serene flow carrying me away from everything that had been me. Up the path, past an oddly azure pool with a school of insects drowning in it, I walked back toward the dining hall. At the dining hall there would be my family: Sestra picking the green beans off Tata’s plate; Tata slicing his steak, still wearing his pith helmet; and Mama separating the mashed potatoes from the carrots on Sestra’s plate, because Sestra never wanted her foods to touch. I would take my place at the table, and Tata would ask me where I had been. “Nowhere,” I would say, and he would ask me nothing more. “You’d better eat something—you look so pale,” Mama would say. My sister would tell us how much she was looking forward to the safari, to seeing the elephants and the antelopes and the monkeys. “Tomorrow is going to be really great,” she would cry, clapping her hands with joy. “I simply can’t wait.” And we would laugh, Mama, Tata, and I, we would laugh, Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha, desperately hiding our rope burns. 
The Photograph Getting older wasn’t too bad. The baldness suited Martin. Everyone said it. He’d had to change his trouser size from 34 to 36. It had been a bit of a shock, but it was kind of nice wearing loose trousers again, hitching them up when he stood up to go to the jacks, or whatever. He was fooling himself; he knew that. But that was the point—he was fooling himself. He’d put on weight but he felt a bit thinner. There were other things, too, that had nothing to do with his body and aging. The kids getting older was one, and the freedom he’d kind of forgotten about. For years, if he stayed in bed in the morning, if he wanted to, it had to be carefully planned. Lizzie, his wife, had to be told. The kids had to be told, and nearly asked. It hadn’t been worth it, the fuckin’ palaver he’d had to go through. For years, all those years the kids were growing up, he’d been on call. A pal of his had used the phrase, on call. He’d been talking about his own life, but—there were four of them there that night in the local, sitting around one of the high tables—he’d been describing all their lives. —I’m like a doctor without the fuckin’ money, Noel had said. They’d all smiled and nodded. He’d loved it, mostly, the whole family/kids thing, and he’d ignored the throb above his left eye that had often felt like too much coffee or dehydration, too much or too little of something, that he thought now had probably been the pressure of that life. For years, the throb—the vein. Everything he’d done, everywhere he’d gone. Every minute had been counted and used. He had four children, and there were eleven years between the oldest and the youngest. It was over now—it seemed to be over—and the throb had gone away. It had taken a while. He’d be wide awake early on Saturday, with nothing to do. He’d drive down to the recycling center in Coolock with five empty bottles and a cardboard box. He’d shove the box in on top of the other boxes and newspapers and he’d remember holding up one of the kids, usually the little girl, so she could reach the slot the cardboard was pushed into. He’d wonder what the fuck he was doing up and out of the house when he could have been at home in bed. He’d drive out to Howth and watch other people buying fish. He’d feel useful while he was driving. There were no kids in the back, only more cars behind him in the rearview mirror. It took him a good while to stop. Well over a year. He was driving long after the kids stopped needing him. But he did stop. He could relax now without thinking too much about it. He wasn’t on call anymore, and Noel was dead. He missed the kids. Two of them still lived at home. They smiled when they saw him. They sometimes stayed at the table for a few minutes after they’d finished eating, and they’d chat. They’d talk more to Lizzie than to him, but it was easy enough; it was nice. They’d been wise that way, him and Lizzie. They’d got through the teen years without too much grief. There’d been no drug habits or pregnancies, not too much puking and far less screaming than they’d heard coming from some of the other houses on the road. They were great kids. He missed them. If he thought of it, the fact that he didn’t have children anymore—if he’d been an actor, it was what he’d have done to make himself cry. There was sex as well. That was a nice surprise. There’d always been sex, more or less, in among the nappies and the Calpol and schoolbooks. They’d never really stopped fancying each other. But the big surprise was some of the stuff they’d got up to since the kids had stopped being kids. Without any announcement or decision. She bit one of his nipples one night, and she’d never done that before. It hurt but, fuck, it woke him up. And he’d made her come—this was a different night—just by talking to her. So she’d said, anyway. She was hanging on to him and crying before he really knew what was going on. He just thought it was a bit of gas, whispering into her ear. He even put on an American accent, all that pussy and cock palaver. He was still just getting the hang of it, deciding what part of the States he was from, when she came. He’d never fuckin’ forget it. And there were other women. Women liked mature men. He’d read that somewhere, in a waiting room somewhere—the dentist or the doctor. Or it was just one of the things you grew up with. Women went for older men. He’d never believed it. Even when he changed it a bit, to some women, and some older men. He’d always thought it was a load of bollix. He still thought that, even more since he’d started noticing women looking at him, kind of giving him the eye. Not young ones—he didn’t think he could have coped with that, smiling back at some gorgeous monster less than half his age. No, it was mature women, older women—some older women. One or two of them. There was a woman from up the road who always waved at him—she lived on the other side, nearer the shops—and she looked great from that distance. He’d looked up from the pile of newspapers in the SPAR one Sunday morning, and she’d been right beside him. He smelt her perfume, and she looked nice up close, too. She was dressed up a bit, in the old-fashioned Sunday way. And she blushed when she saw him. —Hi. —Hi. She looked a bit flustered. —Great day. —Lovely. He loved that, thinking that, that he’d knocked her off course a bit, just by being there, older man himself, in the SPAR on a Sunday morning. He felt the heat in his own face. He bought his Indo and kind of drifted out of the shop, took his time. He hoped, half hoped, they’d walk back up the road together, and chat till they got to her place, and a little bit more at the gate, then he’d go on to his. But it didn’t happen. He walked home alone, and she passed him in her car and she kept going, past her house. She must have been going somewhere, her ma’s or somewhere. Her husband was driving. It was fine. He wasn’t interested in taking it further, and he didn’t think he’d have had the guts. Anyway, another of his friends, Davie, had separated from his missis a few years back and he was living back home with his mother, the poor fucker, because he couldn’t afford to do anything else. But he, Davie, went to a different pub on Sunday nights, where men and women like himself, unattached and out of practice, went. And, after a few months of this, he’d come up with Davie’s Law: All women over the age of forty are mad. He’d announced it in the local, one of their Wednesday nights, and none of them had disagreed. Martin was lucky, though. Lizzie was kind of sexy mad. The insanity suited her. She knew it, and that made it even better. He’d never have done anything to wreck it. But it wasn’t all great, the getting-older business—far from. He’d started grunting whenever he picked something up or bent down to tie his laces, or whatever. He hated it. He’d tell himself to stop. But he’d forget. It became natural. Pick the soap up in the shower—grunt. Start the lawnmower—grunt. He didn’t have to grunt. He was well able to bend over and the rest of it. He asked the lads, and they all did it, too. And there was the cancer. Not his. He’d never had it. His friend who’d died. Noel. That was cancer. Felt a bit short of breath. Went to the doctor. Straight up to Beaumont Hospital. Came out two days later with the news and the dates for his chemotherapy. He told them about it the day after that, in the local, sitting in all the smoke—this was a few months before the smoking ban. Martin didn’t smoke. He never had. Noel did. But he’d given them up a year or so before the cancer, or at least before he found out about it. None of them said anything, for a bit. They waited for him to go on, to make it less terrible. Martin watched Davie put out his cigarette, crush it into the ashtray. He pushed away the last of the rising smoke with his hand. —They say it’s early enough, Noel said. With the chemo and that. They should be able to stop it. And they’d watched him slowly die. Not slowly. Only now it seemed slow, start to end. But at the time he’d been fine—he’d looked fine. He’d lost the hair with the chemo, but he’d looked good. Into the second year, they’d all thought he was going to make it. But then it had really started. They’d had to visit his house. He sat there with his oxygen beside him, one of those cannister things. His eyes started to look huge and he struggled to get up when he was going to the door to say goodbye to them. —Stay where you are. We’re grand. —No, no, I’ll come out with yis. It took him forever to get to the door. They waved at the gate, and smiled back in at him and his mad skeleton smile, his shirt way too big on him. They got into the car. And then they spoke. —He’s not going to make it, is he? —No. Then nothing for a while. —We’d better get going. He’ll be wondering why we’re not moving. —Right. O.K. Lizzie knew Noel wasn’t well, and she asked Martin how he was every couple of days. She asked this time and he told her and he cried and she held his head. About a week after that, he went to the jacks and there was blood on the sides of the bowl when he stood up and turned to flush it. He’d pulled the handle before he properly knew: that was his blood. He said nothing. There was no blood the next time, or the time after that. But it was back the next time; it looked strange on the toilet paper, too red. He had to phone in sick and stay home, because he was getting cramps and sweating like a madman. He told Lizzie. He went back to bed. She sat beside him. —Blood? —Yeah, he said. —Jesus. Sore? —Kind of, he said. Uncomfortable. —I’ll phone the doctor’s, she said. She looked at her watch. —He should be still there. —No, he said. —Yes. —O.K., he said. He had to get up again. He had to go back to the jacks. —You poor thing, she said. He went past her. —Sorry, he said. He heard her at the toilet door, waiting. He wished she’d go away. It wasn’t cancer. He’d ended up going to a specialist and he had a colonoscopy three weeks later, a fibre-optic camera all the way to his appendix. He lay down on the bed thing, turned on his left side, like he was told, and the specialist gave him the jab, a needle in the arm. It was over when he woke up, and he was in a different room. They gave him toast and tea and the specialist was suddenly there, beside him—Martin was still a bit dopey—and told him that he had diverticular disease. The specialist wrote it down on a piece of paper, said something about looking it up on the Net, and then he went back behind the screen and Martin didn’t see him again. He Googled it when he got home, and for a few stupid minutes he wished he had cancer. It was fuckin’ disgusting. Diverticula are pockets that develop in the colon wall. He could feel his own colon; he could feel it throbbing, coiling. He got up, and sat down again. Pain, chills, fever, change in bowel habits. His finger was on the screen, under each word. Perforation, abscess or fistula formation. He found a dictionary in his daughter’s room and looked up abscess. He’d never been sure what an abscess actually was, some kind of spectacular toothache. A swollen area within body tissue, containing an accumulation of pus. He put the dictionary back on her desk. He sat on her bed and ate the Mars bar he’d found beside the dictionary. He didn’t look up fistula. It could wait. He knew enough. He couldn’t tell anyone. He couldn’t tell Lizzie. She’d never let him touch her again. Or she would and he’d see it, the pity and revulsion. Pus. Stand well back, lads, the next time I fart. He could make a joke of it. He was good at that. It was part of the way they were, making a laugh out of everything. But they’d still all be disgusted. Why him—why Martin? What had he done to deserve perforations and pus? Cancer was dignified, something nearly to be proud of—a fuckin’ achievement, compared to this. What the fuck was a fistula formation? He still didn’t look it up. Noel was in the hospice. He was too weak for home. They went in to see him one Sunday afternoon, one of the last summer days. It was a nice room. The window was open. Martin could smell flowers, hear birds. Noel sat on the side of his bed. His head was bent and everything he said came through the oxygen mask. He sounded high-pitched, like his voice had never broken, like every bit of each word was being pulled out of him. They chatted about the usual, the football and that. They laughed more than they had to, and then the laughter became more even and Martin thought he’d tell them about the diverticular thing. But Noel got in there first. —Look it, he said. They said nothing. They waited. —I’m fighting this, he said. They waited. —Yis know that, he said. But, in case. They watched him swallow air and keep it. —Yis’ve been. Great friends, he said. I just wanted. To say that. In case. You know. —Works both ways, brother, said Davie. —You’ll be grand, Noel. —Just, wanted. To say it. He died four days after. The trick was the diet. As far as he could see, from what he’d read on Google. It wasn’t really a disease. It was more like waiting to be a disease. Most people who had it didn’t even know. Plenty of fresh stuff, vegetables and that. No nuts or big seeds, nothing that might block one of the pockets on his colon. For fuck sake. My arse is a time bomb, lads. He could hear himself saying it. Making small of it. Maybe when they were having a pint after the funeral. He could see it and hear it. The questions, the laughter. He told Lizzie. He actually blamed Lizzie, but only for a little while. It was the food she’d been giving him for the past twenty-nine years. She’d been killing him. But he didn’t really think that. He told her the same day Noel died. He should have waited—he thought that later. He shouldn’t have jumped in with his own bad news. He knew he was doing it. Throwing himself into poor Noel’s grave. But he did it. —I’ve a thing called diverticular disease. He stopped himself from adding “myself.” I’ve a thing called diverticular disease myself. He didn’t go that far—I’ve got cancer, too. He didn’t. But it sat there. He knew it. On the kitchen table. Disease. He told her what it was, as far as he understood it. —I can swing between constipation and diarrhea. Or, if one of the yokes gets blocked . . . He was stuck now. He had to go on. She was looking straight at him. —If the fecal matter gets caught in one of them, he said. One of the pockets or pouches, like. It’ll become inflamed. Even perforated. Her hand went to her mouth. —If I’m not careful, he told her. They’ll have to take out my colon. —All of it? —Most of it. He wasn’t sure. He hadn’t really read that far. —But that’s only if I’m not careful. —What d’you mean, careful? she said. —About my diet and that, he said. —What’s wrong with it? —Nothing. He was leaning over, taking the big words back off the table. Why hadn’t he kept his fuckin’ mouth shut? —Will you have to become a vegetarian or something? she said. —No, he said. I don’t think so. But I’ll have to eat vegetables. —You do already. —I know. Just don’t boil them to fuck. He didn’t say it. He didn’t even think it, really. He shrugged. —It’s just . . . Anyway. Now you know. They sat at the table. He thought about Noel. They walked up to the church together, him and Lizzie; it was no distance from the house. There was a big crowd, waiting on the steps and on the bits of grass, out onto the street. —That’s good, he said to Lizzie. He wasn’t sure why. A bit of a comfort for Noel’s wife and kids, who’d be arriving soon in the black cars, with the hearse. It was what he’d have thought. My husband was popular. All these people knew my father. Familiar faces. Unfamiliar faces. He’d had a big, full life. Martin had bought a new shirt, to go with his jacket. It was a bit tight on him, but grand as long as he kept the jacket on. He’d be losing weight soon. The whole new regime. Fruit, grains. The fresh veg. Legumes. Another of the words he’d had to find in the dictionary. Peas, beans. Health and boredom. He hadn’t slept. Not since Noel had died. Since a good bit before, actually. He’d jump awake before he was really asleep. Afraid to sleep. Afraid of falling. His skin was dry. He saw that when he brought his face up to the mirror. Dry skin all over his face. Especially across his forehead and at the sides of his nose. And spots. He could feel them, threatening, angry, right over his forehead. He looked desperate. —Stress, said Lizzie. He nodded. —Grief. —He’s only dead a few days, he said. —You’ve known for two years, she said back. She was right. It made sense. The death, the news, hadn’t done anything. He’d known what it was when the phone rang. He’d been waiting. The sleep was the worst part. One good night would have made the difference, would have put whatever was missing back under his skin. That was how he felt, what he nearly believed. The night before, Lizzie had handed him a bottle of Benylin, the cough mixture, half empty and sticky. He hadn’t seen Benylin since the kids had grown up. —Take a mouthful of that. He looked at it. —What’s the best-before date? he said. It must be fuckin’ ancient. —Never mind the date, she said. If it pours out, it’s grand. He got the lid off. He filled his mouth. He’d always liked the taste of it. He swallowed. —Here, she said. He gave her the bottle. She put it to her mouth and swallowed the rest. —Good night, she said. —Good night. He conked out but he was awake again at half-three. Wide awake. Looking at the ceiling becoming brighter, the big swinging cobweb he always meant to get at with the brush. He got up. Had his breakfast. His new breakfast—a sliced banana, a sliced pear. Yum fuckin’ yum. It was all right, though, and good for him. He was hungry again by the time the rest of them got up. They stood at the church gate and chatted a bit as they waited for the hearse. It was weird, like pretending they weren’t there for the funeral. —Here they come. The hearse came off the road and up past them to the front of the church. They blessed themselves. The coffin in there—Noel. It didn’t seem real. And the black cars after the hearse. Two of them. The wife, the kids, a boyfriend; his sisters, the brother from Australia. They watched as they all got out of the cars and the undertaker’s men took the coffin from the back of the hearse and carried it into the church. He and Lizzie went about halfway up the aisle, not too near, not too far back. Martin hadn’t been in the church in years. But he remembered it exactly, how cold it always was. How far down his knees would have to go before they landed on the padding that ran under the back of the seat in front of him, when the priest told them to kneel. How Jesus in the Stations of the Cross looked a bit like Keith Richards. He was going to show Lizzie, to remind her. But he heard the gasp. That was what it sounded like, the whole place gasping, softly, everybody there. He looked. Noel’s wife was walking away from the coffin. She’d put a framed photograph on top of it. Noel. That was what the gasp was for. Noel, twenty-five years before. —Jesus. Look at that. He’d forgotten. He’d forgotten that Noel used to look like that. A big man with a big grin and a big collar on his red shirt. A big handsome man. A young man, looking back at the camera. Right into his future. He’d forgotten. The last two years, they’d watched Noel get smaller. And, in the last months, the smaller version became the man. The man Martin hoped he wasn’t talking to for the last time. He’d looked at him carefully, already remembering, storing him away. And he’d forgotten about the real man. The full man. But there he was now, on the coffin. It should have been heartbreaking. And it was. Seeing the faded color, the big collar. He felt guilty. He’d let himself forget. He’d let the sick man become the man. He’d forgotten why Noel had been Noel, why they’d been friends. But there was more—the guilt didn’t settle. He could feel it, and hear. The gasp had become whispers. The photograph. Noel’s wife—Barbara—her putting the picture there, on the coffin, that was brilliant. And brave—going up there, letting the wood of the frame clatter against the coffin lid. Keeping her hands steady. She was even smiling when she came back and sat down. Martin could see Davie in front of him, and the other men he knew and liked, all looking at each other, over other people’s heads, smiling. Sad and good had become the same thing. Martin wanted to talk. He wanted to laugh. He wanted to stop being the man with diverticular disease. He felt Lizzie beside him. He nudged her knee with his. She nudged back. The priest was walking over to the platform beside the altar, and the microphone. Martin heard a soft voice somewhere behind him, a man. —Here goes. They stood. 
Landfill Tioga County landfill is where Hector, Jr., is found. Or his “remains”—battered and badly decomposed, his mouth filled with trash. He couldn’t have protested if he’d been alive, buried, as he was, in rubble and raw garbage. Overhead are shrieking birds; in the vast landfill, dump trucks and bulldozers and a search team from the Tioga County Sheriff’s Department in protective uniforms. For three weeks, Hector’s disappearance was in all the newspapers and on TV. Most of his teeth are broken at the roots, but those which remain are sufficient to identify Hector Campos, Jr., of Southfield, Michigan. Nineteen years old, a freshman engineering student at Michigan State University at Grand Rapids, reported missing by his dormitory room-mates in the late afternoon of Monday, March 27th, but said to have last been seen around 2 A.M. Saturday, March 25th, in the parking lot behind the Phi Epsilon fraternity house, on Pitt Avenue. And now, in the early morning of April 17th, Mrs. Campos answers the phone on the first ring. These terrible weeks that her son has been missing, Mrs. Campos has answered the phone many times and made many calls, as her husband has made many calls, and now the call from the Tioga County Sheriff’s Department they have been dreading. Mrs. Campos? Are you seated? Is your husband there? Mrs. Campos is not seated but standing, barefoot and only partly clothed, shivering, with matted hair and glazed eyes, her mouth tasting of scum from the hateful medication that has not yet helped her to sleep. Mr. Campos, hurriedly descending the stairs in rumpled boxer shorts and a sweated-through undershirt, says, “Irene, what is it? Who is it?” and rudely pries her icy fingers off the receiver. The Tioga County landfill, approximately eighty miles from the Campos home: how soon can Mr. and Mrs. Campos drive to the morgue to corroborate the identification? Of course, the body has “badly decomposed,” so Mr. Campos views it alone, through a plate-glass partition, while Mrs. Campos waits in another room. Remains! What is this strange, unfathomable word? Mrs. Campos whispers it aloud: “remains.” She seems to have stumbled into a rest room, white tiled walls, door locked behind her, and the light switch triggering a fierce overhead fan that blows freezing antiseptic air: the stark settings to which, on a weekday at 10 A.M., emergency brings us. Why is Irene Campos here? Why has this happened? Is this a public rest room? Where? Elsewhere, Mr. Campos observes the body laid upon a table beneath glaring lights, most of it shielded by a sheet so that only the head, or what remains of the head, is exposed. How is it possible that these “remains” are Hector, Jr., who once was a hundred and seventy-five pounds of solid flesh, who was, like his father, slightly soft at the waist, short-legged, with thick thighs, a wrestler’s build (though Hector, Jr., who’d wrestled for Southfield High in his senior year, had not made the wrestling team at Grand Rapids)? What now remains of Hector, Jr., could not weigh more than ninety pounds, yet his father recognizes him at once, the shock of it like an electric current piercing his heart: the battered and mutilated and partially eaten-away face, the empty eye sockets. Oh, God, it is Hector, his son. Mr. Campos can barely murmur “Yes,” turns away quivering with pain. “Yes, that is Hector, Jr.” Mr. Campos will never be the same again—now that he’s a man who has lost his son, his soul cauterized, telling his anxious wife, “Don’t ask, don’t speak to me, please,” even as she loses control. “Are you sure it’s our son, I want to see him, what if there’s a mistake, a tragic mistake, you know you make mistakes, why would Hector be in that terrible place, how has this happened, how has God let this happen, I want to see our son.” Hector, Jr. Called by school friends Heck or Scoot. Within the Campos family, sometimes called Junior (which he hated, as soon as he was old enough to register the insult) and sometimes Little Guy (until the age of twelve, when Hector, Jr., was no longer what one would call “little”), more often simply Hector. At Grand Rapids, Hector, Jr., was called Hector by his professors, Scoot by his fellow-pledges at Phi Epsilon, and Campos by the older Phi Epsilons he so admired and wished to emulate. Campos was a good guy, great sense of humor, terrific Phi Ep spirit. Of the pledges, Campos was, like, the most loyal. Seems like a tragedy, a weird accident, what happened to him, but it didn’t happen at the frat house, that’s for sure. On the Hill, partying begins Thursday night. Mostly, you blow off your Friday classes, which for Scoot Campos were classes he’d got into the habit of cutting, anyway: Intro Electrical Engineering, taught by a foreigner (Indian? Pakistani? whatever) who spoke a rapid, heavily accented English that baffled and offended the sensitive ears of certain Michigan-born students, including Hector Campos, Jr., whose midterm exam was returned to him with the blunt red numeral 71; and Intro Computer Technology, in which, though the course was taught by a Caucasian American male who spoke crisp English, he was pulling a C, C-minus. Probably, yes, Scoot had been drinking that night, maybe more than he could handle, not in the dorm here but over at the frat house. Most weekends he’d come back to the dorm pretty wasted, and, yes, that was kind of a problem for us. But basically Scoot was a good kid. Just maybe in over his head a little. Freshman engineering can be tough if you don’t have the math, and even if you do. His roommates in Brest Hall reported him missing late Monday afternoon. They guessed something might be wrong, called the frat house, but there was no answer. Scoot’s things were exactly as he’d left them sometime Saturday afternoon, and it wasn’t like Scoot to stay over at the frat house on a Sunday night, or through Monday. He was only a pledge and didn’t have a bed there, and he’d missed four Monday classes. Weeks later, Mr. and Mrs. Campos are signing forms in the Tioga County Morgue, as through the twenty-two years of their marriage they have signed so many forms—mortgage papers, homeowner’s insurance, life insurance, medical insurance, their son’s college-loan application at Midland Michigan Bank. Hector Campos, Sr., one of the most reliably high-performing salespersons at Southfield Chrysler, at least until recently, has often lain sleepless in his king-size bed in the gleaming-white, aluminum-sided Colonial at 23 Quail Circle, Whispering Woods Estates of Southfield, his thoughts racing like panicked ants, his head ringing with the crazed demand for money, always more money. Apart from the sum quoted by the university admissions office for tuition, there was room and board, textbooks, “fees” for fraternity rush, for fraternity pledging, a startlingly high fee (payable in advance, Hector, Jr., said) for fraternity initiation in May. “Send the check to me, Dad. Make it out to Phi Epsilon Fraternity, Inc., and send it to me, Dad. Please!” Mrs. Campos, lonely since Hector, Jr., left for college, took up the campaign, excited and reproachful. She pleaded and argued on Hector’s behalf. “If you refuse Hector you will shame him in the eyes of his friends, you will break his heart. This fraternity—Pi Episom, Pi Epsilom?—this fraternity means more to him than anything else in his life right now. If you refuse him he will never forgive you, and I will never forgive you.” Only when Mrs. Campos threatened to borrow the fifteen hundred dollars from her parents did Mr. Campos give in, disgusted, defeated—as so often through the years, if a man wishes to preserve his marriage, he gives in. Married for love—does that mean for life? Can love prevail through life? Now, in the chilled antiseptic air of the Tioga County medical examiner’s office, Mr. and Mrs. Campos are co-signing documents in triplicate that will release the “remains” of Hector Campos, Jr., for burial (in St. Joseph’s Cemetery, Southfield) after the medical examiner has filed his final report. The police investigation has yet to determine whether Hector died in the early hours of March 25th in the steep-sided Dumpster behind the Phi Epsilon frat house—where investigators found stains and swaths of blood, as if made by wildly thrashing bloody wings—or whether he died as many as forty-eight hours later, after lying unconscious, possibly comatose from brain injuries, until Monday morning, and then being hauled away unseen beneath mounds of trash, cans, bottles, Styrofoam and cardboard packages, rancid raw garbage, stained and filthy clothing, and paper towels soaked in vomit, urine, even feces. At approximately 6:45 A.M. on March 27th, he was dumped into the rear of a thunderous Tioga County Sanitation Department truck and hauled sixteen miles north of the city to the Packard Road recycling transfer station, to be compacted and then hauled away again to the gouged, misshapen, ever-shifting landscape of the Tioga County landfill. Carefully, the Tioga County sheriff has explained that “foul play” has not been ruled out as a possibility, though the medical examiner has determined that the “massive injuries” to the body of Hector Campos, Jr., are “compatible” with injuries that would have been caused by the trash-compacting process. A more complete autopsy may yield new information. The police investigation will continue, and the university administration will convene an investigating committee. As many as a hundred college students have been interviewed: Hector’s roommates, classmates, Phi Epsilon pledges and brothers, even Hector’s professors, who take care to speak of him in the neutral terms befitting one who has suffered a terrible but inexplicable—and blameless—fate. Jesus! You have to hope that the poor bastard died right away, smashed out of his mind, diving down the trash chute into the Dumpster and breaking his neck on contact. Only the police investigators can bring themselves to imagine that Hector Campos, Jr., may have been “compacted” while still alive. During the strain, anxiety, and insomniac misery of the three-week search, Mrs. Campos was fierce and frantic with hope, holding prayer vigils at St. Joseph’s Church. Relatives, neighbors, and parish members lit votive candles, for God is a God of mercy as well as wrath, while she hid her face in prayer. God, let Hector return to us, send Hector back to us, Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is with thee blessed art thou among women pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death, amen. Mrs. Campos would forever relive the shock of that call out of nowhere: a man, identifying himself as an assistant dean at the university, and Mrs. Campos saying, “Yes? Yes, I am Hector’s mother,” drawing a quick short breath. “Is something wrong?” In weak moments, she imagined the possibility of a phone call bearing different news. The possibility of subsequent phone calls bearing different news. For it was crucial, during those days, those interminable stretches of (open-eyed, exhausted) time, to believe that Hector was alive. Our son is alive! She had only to shut her eyes to see him as he looked when he came home for a few days the previous month—his frowning smile, such a handsome boy. Mrs. Campos always had to tell him how handsome he was. Hector had hated his “fat face” since puberty, his “beak nose,” his “ape forehead, like Dad’s.” Mrs. Campos winced at such words, pulled at Hector’s hands when, unconsciously, he dug and picked at his nose. Any serious discussion between them had to be initiated by Mrs. Campos, and then only gingerly, for her son so quickly took offense. “Jesus, Mom, lighten up, will you? Must’ve missed your call—what’s the big deal, this crappy cell phone you bought me.” And Mrs. Campos cried, “But I love you! We love you,” but her words were muffled. She was sweating and thrashing in her sleep; the nightmare had not lifted. She had to keep the flame alive those terrible days, weeks. At Easter Sunday Mass, she shut her eyes tight, but this time saw only Hector, Jr.,’s grimace—how he’d hated going to church. In recent years he’d refused altogether, even refused midnight Mass on Christmas Eve. Mrs. Campos had been so ashamed, so hurt. Now she was kneeling at the Communion rail, hiding her hot-skinned face in her hands, her numbed lips moving rapidly in prayer. She was dazed and desperate, snatching at prayer as you’d snatch at something for balance. The tranquillizers she was taking had affected her balance, her sense of her (physical) self; there was a buzzing in her head. Please help us, please do not abandon us in our hour of need. She looked up as the elderly priest made his way to her, and craned her neck like a starving bird, opening her mouth to take the doughy white Communion wafer on her tongue, her dry, dry tongue. This is my body, and this is my blood. She was half fainting then, in ill-chosen patent-leather pumps, staggering away from the Communion rail, into the aisle, all eyes fixed on the heavily made-up woman with so clearly dyed, dark-red hair, a middle-aged fleshiness to her face, bruiselike circles beneath her eyes, and quickly there came Mr. Campos to help the swaying woman back to the family pew, fingers gripping her arm at the elbow. Hector Campos, Sr.! Father of the missing boy! Swarthy-skinned, with dark wiry hair, a low forehead crisscrossed with lines, and large, oddly simian ears protruding from the sides of his head. There was a grim set to the man’s mouth, a flush of indignation or impatience, as Mrs. Campos confusedly struggled with him as if to wrench her arm out of his grip, as if he were hurting her. In the car driving home, Mrs. Campos dissolved into hysteria, screaming, “You don’t have faith! You’ve given up faith, I hate you!” For it was crucial to believe, as Mrs. Campos believed, that, nearly three weeks after Hector, Jr., “disappeared,” he might yet be found unharmed. He might yet call his anxious parents, after so many days of (inexplicably) not calling. He might show up to surprise his parents on Easter Sunday when they returned from St. Joseph’s, might be in the kitchen, eating from the refrigerator. Or maybe Hector had been injured and was amnesiac, or had been abducted but would escape his captor or be released. Or he had been wandering, drifting, who knew where, hitchhiking; he’d left the university without telling anyone, he was upset, had problems with a girl, a girl he’d never told his parents about, just as he’d never told them much about his personal life since sophomore year of high school, since he put on weight, grew several inches, and became so involved with weight lifting, and then with wrestling, the fanatic weight obsessions of wrestling—fasting, binge eating, fasting, binge eating. And maybe the Phi Epsilons had been putting pressure on Hector; maybe he’d been made to feel inferior among the pledges. He’d once called his mother to say how crappy he felt, never having enough money—the other guys had money, but he didn’t. He’d told her how shitty he was made to feel, and that if the fraternity dropped him, didn’t initiate him with the other pledges, he’d kill himself, he would. He swore he’d kill himself! And Mrs. Campos had pleaded, “Please don’t say such terrible things! You don’t mean what you’re saying, you’re breaking my heart.” Mrs. Campos blamed Mr. Campos for coercing Hector into engineering. Such difficult courses, who could have excelled at such difficult courses? It was no wonder that Hector had been so lonely, away from home for the first time in his life. None of his Southfield High friends were at Grand Rapids. His classes were too large; his professors scarcely knew him. Twelve thousand undergraduates at Grand Rapids. Three hundred residents in Brest Hall, an ugly high-rise where poor Hector shared a room with two other guys—Reb and Steve—who, in Hector’s words, never went “out of their way” to be friendly to him. In turn, Hector’s roommates spoke vaguely of him when they were interviewed by Tioga County sheriff’s deputies. Didn’t know Scoot too well, he kind of kept to himself, kind of obsessed about things, like the wrestling team last fall. He didn’t make it, but the coach encouraged him to try again, so he was hopeful. It was hard to talk to him, y’know? You had to care a lot about Scoot’s interests—that’s all he wanted to talk about, in kind of a fast, nervous way. He’d be, like, laughing, interrupting himself laughing. Fraternity rush was a crazed time for Scoot. He was really happy when he got a bid from the Phi Eps. He was so proud of his pledge pin, and he was looking forward to living in the frat house next year if his dad O.K.’d it. Because there was some money issue, maybe. Or maybe it was Scoot’s grades. He was having kind of a meltdown with Intro Electrical Engineering, also his computer course. He’d ask some of the guys on the floor for help, which was mostly O.K.—you had to feel sorry for him—but then Scoot would get kind of weird, and sarcastic, like we were trying to screw him up, telling him the wrong things. There were times Scoot wouldn’t speak to us and stayed away from the room and over at the frat house. Phi Eps are known for their keg parties—they’re kind of wild-party guys. There aren’t many engineering majors there on the Hill, not in the Phi Ep house, anyway. No. 228 Pitt Street is a large, three-story Victorian house with peeling gunmetal-gray paint, moss growing in rain gutters, rotting turrets, and steep shingled roofs in need of repair. The Phi Epsilon house dates back to the early decades of the twentieth century, when the Hill was Grand Rapids’s most prestigious residential neighborhood. Now the Hill is known as Fraternity Row, and Phi Epsilon exudes an air that is both derelict and defiant, its enormous metallic-silver “??” above a listing portico. Scrub grass grows in the stunted front yard. Vehicles are parked in the cracked asphalt driveway, in the parking lot at the rear, in the weedy front yard, and at the curb. Often, the Dumpster at the rear of the house overflows and trash lies scattered at its base. It’s a feature of the Phi Epsilon house that, warm weather or cold, its windows are likely to be flung open to emit high-decibel rock music, particularly at night; and that, out of the flung-open windows, begrimed and frayed curtains blow in the wind. Inside the house there’s a pervasive odor of stale beer, fried foods, and cigarette smoke. The high-ceilinged rooms are sparsely furnished with battered leather sofas and chairs, the decades-old gifts of alums. On the badly scarred hardwood floors are threadbare carpets; on the walls, torn and discolored wallpaper. Brass chandeliers have grown black with tarnish. There are rickety stairs and bannisters, gouged wood panelling, and in the dining room a long table carved with initials like fossil traces. In the basement is the enormous party room running the width of the house, with a stained linoleum floor, more battered leather furniture, leprous-green mold growing on the walls and ceiling, and more intense odors. Scattered throughout the house are filth-splotched lavatories, and in a small room beyond the party room is an ancient, rattling oil furnace. For several years in the nineteen-nineties, Phi Epsilon fraternity was “suspended” from the university for having violated a number of campus and city ordinances: underage/illegal drinking on the premises, keg parties in the front yard, “operating a public nuisance,” sexual assaults against young women and high-school-age girls, and even, during a secret initiation ceremony in 1995, against a Phi Epsilon pledge who had to be rushed to a local emergency room with “rectal hemorrhaging.” Bankrupt from fines, lawsuits, and a dwindling membership, the fraternity had gone off campus until, in 1999, a group of aggressive alums, led by a Michigan state legislator, campaigned to have it reinstated. Still, by 2006 the fraternity hadn’t yet regained its pre-suspension numbers—it had only twenty-six active members, one-third of whom were on academic probation. In the rush season when Hector Campos, Jr., became a pledge, the fraternity had needed at least seventeen pledges, but only nine young men accepted bids: Zwaaf, Scherer, Tickler, Tuozzolo, Vreasy, Felbush, Herker, Krampf, and Campos. Of these, only the first three were first choices of the fraternity; the others were accepted to help fill out the membership. None of the pledges knew this, of course. Although, you know how guys are when they’re drinking. It might have been, nobody can recall exactly, but it might have been the case that Herker’s “big brother,” who was pissed off at Scoot Campos for his falling-down-drunk belligerence and his all too frequent assholish behavior, told him that he wasn’t anybody’s first choice. “Fuck you, fuckhead!” the guys yelled, lurching at each other. Or maybe this never happened, or didn’t happen in this way. When interviewed by the Tioga County investigators, none of the guys could remember, exactly. First we knew Scoot was missing, it’s the dean calling. Nobody here knew he was missing. Must’ve gone back to his dorm and something happened there, or maybe he never went back. But whatever happened to him didn’t happen here. Mrs. Campos tried to take pride in this fact: Mr. Campos brought his family from Detroit to live in the city of Southfield, in a white, four-bedroom Colonial, and no one in Irene Campos’s family had such a beautiful home—not her sisters, not her cousins—and no one in Mr. Campos’s family, either. Mr. Campos’s mother was living out her life on lower Dequindre, in mostly black Detroit, where for thirty-five years her husband, Cesar, worked for Gratiot Construction & Roofing—he squatted and stooped on roofs in the blazing sun and drove a truck for the company, hauling rubble from construction sites until his back gave out. He died of heart failure at the age of sixty-seven, and Irene Campos was terrified of seeing in her husband’s face the defeated look of the old father, resigned always to the worst—that peasant soul, bitter in resignation—dying before his time. He has given up, he has lost hope that we will see our son again. I will never forgive him. Mrs. Campos continued to have faith. How many times had she called Hector, Jr.,’s cell phone, knowing that her son’s cell phone was no longer in operation, that no one knew where it was. (In the vast Tioga County landfill amid tons of rubble, very likely. Where else? Hector, Jr., kept his cell phone in the back pocket of his jeans, and that part of his clothing had been torn from him.) Mutations are the key to natural selection, Hector had learned in Intro to Biology, his science-requirement course—said to be the easiest of the science-requirement courses, though he hadn’t found it so easy, had barely maintained a C average. Natural selection is the key to evolution and survival, he’d written in wavering ballpoint, fighting to keep his eyelids open, so very tired, still wasted from the previous night of hanging out with the guys. He was trying to concentrate, a taste of beer and pizza dough coming up on him even now, hours later. Genes are the key to change, evolution is only possible through change, species change not by free will but blindly. No idea what this meant, what the lecturer was saying. If words were balloons, these words were floating up to bounce against the ceiling of the windowless fluorescent-lit lecture hall, colliding with one another and drifting about, stupidly. He would’ve used his laptop, except his fucking laptop wasn’t working right. No purpose, just chance. The pattern of scout ants seeking food would look to a viewer like “intelligent design” but was really the result of the random, haphazard trails of ants seeking food. Ants? No idea what the hell this guy’s droning on about, like it matters. Jesus, he’s so bored! And thirsty for a beer—his throat is parched. He checks his cell and finds a text message: “PLEASE CALL MOM DARLING.” His heart sinks, and with a stab of annoyance he erases the message. What looks like “intelligent design” is merely random. Instinct, not intelligence. Any questions? Meant to call his mother, but, Jesus, why doesn’t that woman get a life of her own? It’s pledge-party weekend. Scoot Campos has other priorities. The girl he’d been planning to take to the party had sent an e-mail: Something’s come up. Bitch, he knew he couldn’t trust her. A girl one of the Phi Ep guys hooked him up with last time said thanks, but she’d be out of town starting Friday. Scoot is damn disappointed, depressed. What’s he going to have to do, pay for it? Kind of earnest and boring when he was, like, sober. You got the impression Campos hadn’t a clue how totally uninterested people were in the things he’d talk about—the frat house, wrestling, his opinions on his courses, girls. Me and Steve liked him O.K. at first, it’s cool we got a Hispanic roommate, or what’s it—Latino?—that’s cool. But Campos, he’s just some guy, nothing special about him you could pick on, except he wanted to hang out with the frat guys. Thought we were weird for not signing up for rush. After he pledged, he’d start coming back to the room really late, stumbling around drunk like an asshole, mess up in here, piss on the toilet seat and the floor and next day act like it’s some goddam joke. That last weekend he didn’t come back, truth is it was great. That poor guy, you have to feel sorry for him, but we didn’t, much. It’s a shitty thing to say, can’t tell any adult, but we don’t miss Scoot. And we’re fed up answering questions about him—we told all we know. Fed up with everybody assuming we were friends of his, involved somehow, or responsible. Fuck it, we are not involved and we’re not responsible! And seeing his parents, Mrs. Campos so sad and so pathetic, trying to smile at me, hugging me, and Steve, like we were Scoot’s best friends. It’s totally weird to realize that a guy like Scoot Campos, so pathetic, a loser, is somebody that is loved by somebody. At the party, things are going O.K. in spite of the red-haired girl ditching him first chance she has, hooking up with one of the older guys. O.K., Scoot can live with that, but later there’s some exchange of words—he’s hot-faced, trying not to show he’s pissed at the guys taunting him. Then he’s laughing to himself, crawling—where? Upstairs, where? He can’t think, his head is bombarded with deafening music, so loud you almost can’t hear it. Some kind of a joke, eager to make the guys laugh to show that he isn’t hurt by, who was it, that girl, blond girl, little-bitty tits, skinny little ass in jeans so tight it’s all you can do not to trace the crack of her ass with your forefinger. Maybe, in fact, somebody did just that, and he’s cracking up with laughter, braying belly laughter, until somebody slaps him, kicks him, and he’s on his knees, on his hands and knees crawling, needing to get to a toilet, and fast. Maybe it isn’t funny, or is it? Scoot Campos has fine-honed a reputation at the Phi Ep house as a joker, funniest goddam pledge. The other pledges are losers, but Scoot Campos is a wrestler, he’s witty and wired. And good-looking, in that swarthy Hispanic way, with dark wavy hair, a solid jawline, and a fleshy mouth. Funny like somebody on Comedy Central, except Scoot makes it up himself, improvises. A few beers, some tequila, and Scoot isn’t tongue-tied and sweating but witty and wired. By coincidence it’s Newman’s Day, the twenty-fourth of the month, named for the actor Paul Newman—Scoot doesn’t know why, nobody knows why, and the challenge is to chug twenty-four beers in some record time, and, of course, there’s tequila at the party, too. Scoot has acquired a taste for tequila! If he’d known about tequila in fucking high school, he might’ve had a goddam better time. Now he’s trying to remember what it was, a few weeks ago—some crappy thing one of the brothers did, humiliating, hurt his feelings, right in the middle of midterms. He’d fucked up the engineering exam, he knew, so he was drinking with some of the guys over at the frat house and (somehow) fell down the stairs somewhere. He’d been puking, and sort of passed out, and somebody had dragged him into a bathroom and turned on the shower and left him, and after a while one of the guys came back and turned off the shower, and by this time Scoot had crawled out onto the floor and flopped over onto his back. The guy kicked him—Hey, Campos. Hey, man, how ya doin’?—meaning to wake him, maybe, or turn him over, but when Scoot didn’t move he left him to sleep off the drunk, soaking wet and shivering in the cold. Next morning when Scoot woke up, groggy and dazed, with a pounding headache, a taste of vomit in his mouth, and dried vomit all down his front, he’d had to admit with the cruel clarity of stone-cold sobriety: They left me here on my back to puke and choke and die, the fuckers. His friends! His fraternity brothers-to-be! And he thought, Never again. Not ever. Meaning he’d de-pledge Phi Ep, and he’d stop drinking. But, somehow, the next weekend he’d come trailing back, couldn’t stay away. These guys are his friends, his only friends. Except tonight there’s some kind of bad feeling again, Scoot’s feelings are bruised, but, fuck, he isn’t going to show it. Of the pledge class, Scoot Campos is possibly the alums’ favorite, he’s been given to know. Ethnic diversity—an idea whose time has come for Phi Epsilon. At the top of the stairs he’s out of breath, can’t hold it back, God damn, is he pissing his pants? Can’t help it, can’t stop it. How’d this happen? If the girls downstairs learn of Scoot’s accident they’ll be totally grossed out, and who can blame them? The guys are going to be disgusted. It’s not the first time that Scoot has been too staggering drunk to lurch to a toilet, or outside to the lawn, too confused about where he is, if he’s awake or, in fact, asleep. Maybe this is a dream, one of those weird dreams, and it’s O.K. to piss, nobody will scold, it’s O.K. to piss into some receptacle or crack in the floor, that hot wet sensation spreading in his groin, soaking his underwear and down his legs, quickly turning cold. A piss trail follows Scoot Campos up the stairs, soaking into the carpet, and he’s laughing like a deranged little kid who’s wet his diaper on purpose—hell, the carpets at the Phi Ep house are already (piss?) stained, what’s the big deal? “Fuck you,” he’s saying, defending himself against some guy, or guys, stooping over him, calling him names. Scoot Campos is wired tonight, he’s laughing in their faces, and somebody’s dragging him—where? Toward a window? Through the wide-open windows the curtains are sucked outside and flapping in the rain, and there’s a moon, a glaring-white moon like a beacon, some kind of crazy eye peering into Scoot Campos’s soul, like, How ya doin’, Scoot? Hey, man, know what? You’re O.K. This is God’s eye, Scoot thinks. (Or maybe a street light? Outside on Pitt Avenue?) Somebody is lifting him, and he’s thrashing and flailing his arms, laughing so hard that any remaining dribble of piss leaks out, and whoever it is grabs Scoot in a hammerlock. Probably one of the older guys, one of the wrestlers, built like a tank and taut-jawed and giving off heat and the pungent smell of a male body in fighting mode. He’s cursing Scoot, calling him asshole, dickhead, fuckhead, and Scoot is being lifted, pushed into an opening in the wall—the trash chute. Or maybe the drunken pledge is crawling head first into the chute of his own volition, and one of the guys grabs his ankles to pull him back, and Scoot is kicking and yelling and laughing. At least it sounds like laughter; with this wild-wired spic anything is possible. Hey, guys? Help me? Help me, guys? He’s kicking like crazy, so whoever has hold of his ankles has to let go—Campos is goddam dangerous when he’s been drinking—and then his thick, stocky body lurches down the trash chute. It sounds like a pig squealing, or a kid shooting down a slide in an amusement park. At the end of the pitch-black, stale-air chute there should be something soft to break his fall, except there isn’t, and with the impact of a hundred and seventy-five pounds Scoot Campos strikes the edge of the trash bin and his forehead hits its sharp metal lip. Immediately he’s bleeding, dazed; his neck has been twisted, his spine, his legs are buckled weirdly beneath him. He’s too dazed to be panicked, not knowing what has happened or where he is. Feebly, he pleads “Hey, guys? Help me?” amid a confusion of rich, ripe, rotting smells, something rancid. He’s upside down trying to turn, to rotate his body, stunned and quivering like a mangled worm, trying to lift his head, to breathe, to open his mouth, a terrible throbbing pain in his neck, in his upper spine. Like a gasping fish he opens his mouth, but he can’t make a sound, can’t call for help. For sure the guys will check on Scoot, make their way downstairs shouting and laughing like hyenas. Craziest damn thing, this drunk pledge, smashed out of his head, slid down the trash chute. It’s not the first time a drunken pledge or active at the Phi Ep house has slid down the trash chute into the Dumpster. Anyway, at some point there was the intention to check on the pledge in the Dumpster, but amid the party noise, the swarm of people—including heavily made-up high-school girls—and the pounding music there were too many distractions. Later, it will be claimed that a couple of guys did, in fact, check the Dumpster but Campos wasn’t there. Possibly Campos had been bleeding, but he couldn’t have been seriously hurt because evidently he’d crawled out of the Dumpster and gone away, back to the dorm maybe. Anyway, nobody was in the Dumpster when they checked, they swore. Yet the guy had a weird sense of humor—everybody would testify to Scoot Campos’s weird sense of humor—and he might’ve returned and crawled back into the Dumpster, like a little kid would do, like hide-and-seek, except he’d fallen asleep there, or he’d hurt his head and passed out, and got covered in party trash. Had to be some freak accident like that—what other explanation was there? As Scoot’s brain is bleeding, as Scoot’s mouth is filling with trash, as Scoot’s heart beats and lurches with a frantic stubbornness, seventy miles to the east, in Whispering Woods Estates, Southfield, Irene Campos lies awake in bed uncomfortably perspiring, hot flushes in her face and in her upper chest. Her thoughts come confused and slow, and have something to do with the moon veiled by curtains, or by high scudding clouds—the full moon is a sign of good luck and happiness, or is there something disquieting about the full moon, so whitely glaring? Or is it a neighbor’s outside light? Mrs. Campos isn’t fully awake, nor is she asleep, and she is planning tomorrow to insist to Mr. Campos that they drive over to Grand Rapids to visit with Hector, Jr., who hasn’t been answering her calls. Beside her, Mr. Campos is sleeping fitfully on his back, twitching and thrashing in the smelly underwear that she’ll sometimes find kicked beneath the bed or in a corner of Mr. Campos’s closet—why? Why would a man hoard soiled underwear? And socks? Mr. Campos snores, snorts, sounds like a drowning man, and, careful not to wake him, Mrs. Campos pokes and nudges him until he rolls off his back, now grinding his teeth but facing away, at the edge of the bed. Earlier that day, Mrs. Campos sent Hector, Jr., a pleading text message: “PLEASE CALL MOM DARLING.” But Hector, Jr., did not respond, and she has become seriously worried. Oh, if only that college hadn’t been so aggressive about recruiting students from Southfield High, sending brochures and pamphlets, even calling on the phone—not that the university was going to offer Hector, Jr., a scholarship, not a penny, his parents would be paying full tuition. If only Hector, Jr., had decided to go to Eastern Michigan University at Ypsilanti, no more than forty miles away. There’s an engineering school at Ypsilanti, too, and fraternities, and Hector, Jr., could live at home, and Mrs. Campos could take better care of him. Unconsciously caressing her left breast, holding her left breast in her right hand—how like a sac of warm water it is, or warm milk—and, on the brink of a dream of surpassing beauty and tenderness, Mrs. Campos shuts her eyes. Why does Mr. Campos never caress her breasts anymore? Why does Mr. Campos never suck her nipples anymore? Mrs. Campos runs her thumb over the large soft nipple, stirring it to hardness, like a little berry. She is driving back from the city, driving back from ugly Detroit to Whispering Woods Estates, such joy, such pride, turning into the brick-gated subdivision off Southfield Road, making her way floating along Pheasant Pass, Larkspur Drive, Bluebell Lane, and, at last, to Quail Circle, where, in the gleaming-white Colonial at No. 23, the Campos family lives. 
Other People’s Deaths The coroner’s men put James in the back of the truck and drove away, and the Bernstines, once again, urged Ilka to come home with them, at least for the night, or to let them take the baby. Again, Ilka was earnest in begging to be left right here, wanted the baby to stay here with her. No thank you, really, she did not need—did not want—anybody sleeping over. The friends and colleagues trooped down the path: Leslie Shakespeare, the director, and Joe Bernstine, the co-founder of the Concordance Institute—genus think tank, of which Ilka was, and poor Jimmy had been, junior members—and their colleagues the Ayes, the Zees, the Cohns, and the Stones. Outside the gate they stopped, they looked back, but Ilka had taken the baby inside and closed the door. They stood for a moment, they talked, not accounting to themselves for the intense charm of the summer hill rising behind Ilka’s house, of standing, of breathing—of the glamour of being alive. Leslie asked everyone to come over for a drink. The report of the accident had come at the very moment the committee was about to vote on Jimmy’s retention. Jimmy had told Ilka not to worry when he accepted the job as the institute’s director of projects: what he didn’t know about the Who’s Who of scholarship he would pick up as he went along. Ilka had worried. She watched him not writing the book stipulated in his contract. She watched him worry when he screwed up the institute’s directories on the new computer. Called on the carpet most recently for failing to file a duplicate of his letter to one conference participant, Jimmy had failed to confess that he couldn’t find the fellow’s address. Leslie Shakespeare had sent Jimmy out of town on institute business while his retention was under discussion. The friends and colleagues began to move along the sidewalk in groups and pairs. Alfred Stone walked with his wife, Alpha. Alfred was a doctor, the only one of the group unconnected with the work of the institute. It was he who had attended at the scene of the accident. As he walked, he was arranging the sentence he ought to have spoken to the widow when he arrived at her house or at some moment in the hours since. Everybody stopped at the corner. Ilka’s door had opened and the two policemen came out. They had spent the day in the hallway trying to look inconspicuous. Now that the dead man, brought so inexplicably home from the scene of the accident, had been removed, they could finally leave. The small Puerto Rican policeman walked out the gate, but the big young policeman turned to wave. Ilka must be standing back in the darkness. The two policemen got into their car and drove away. Inside her foyer Ilka closed the door and leaned her head against it, devastated at everybody’s leaving. WORDS TO SPEAK TO THE WIDOW At the Shakespeares’ there was the business of walking into the sitting room, of sitting down, of the drinks. “A lot of ice, Leslie. Thanks.” “Martini, please, and hold the vegetables.” Little, agile Joe Bernstine smiled sadly. “I wonder if we retained Jimmy.” Leslie Shakespeare said, “Alpha will schedule us a new search committee.” Nobody said, We could hardly do worse than poor Jimmy. Jenny Bernstine said, “Ilka is being very gallant and terrific.” Nobody said, She didn’t cry. Alicia Aye said, “Ilka isn’t one to throw her hands up.” “Or the towel in, or the sponge,” said Eliza Shakespeare. “Joke. Sorry!” Alicia said, “Ilka is not one to drown in her sorrows.” “Well, I’m going to drown mine,” Eliza said, holding her glass out to Leslie, who refilled it. Alicia said, “We live on borrowed time.” Alpha asked her husband, “The policeman said there was fire?” and the friends’ and colleagues’ imaginations went into action to dim or scramble or in some way unthink the flames in which Jimmy—this person they knew—was burning. They wished to avoid an image of which they would never entirely be able to rid themselves. Dr. Stone replied that Jimmy’s body had been thrown clear of the burning car. The fall had broken his neck. The flames went out. The friends envisaged an unnaturally angled head with Jimmy’s face. Dr. Alfred Stone took his drink and sat down. He was a very large man, with a large head that, Ilka had once told the Shakespeares, she thought would look good on Mt. Rushmore. Eliza said that jaw, that forelock were from the Sunday funnies—the muscle-bound superhero with the heart of tin. “Aw!” Ilka had said. “Poor Alfred! I like Alfred.” Dr. Stone looked around the room and located his wife, Alpha, sitting beside Eliza Shakespeare. Were they talking about the death? Alfred had, earlier in the day, looked across another room and seen Alpha talking with Ilka. He had wondered what words Alpha might be saying to the widow: To refer to the death would be putting a finger in the wound, but how not to mention it? And wasn’t it gross to be talking of anything else? Alfred mistakenly believed himself to be singularly lacking in what normal people—the people in this room—were born knowing. He thought that other people knew how to feel and what to say. He watched them walk out and return with drinks. They stood together, they talked. Dr. Stone remained sitting. ______ At eleven o’clock that first night a brutal loneliness knocked the wind out of Ilka. Then her phone rang. “We thought we’d see how you were doing,” Leslie said. “Did the baby get to sleep?” “The baby is O.K. I’m O.K. Is it O.K. to be O.K.? I could do with some retroactive lead time. I need to practice taking my stockings off with Jimmy dead. Relearn how to clean my teeth.” Leslie said, “Wait.” Ilka heard him pass on to Eliza, who must be in the room, who might be lying in the bed beside him, that Ilka was O.K. but needed to relearn how to clean her teeth with Jimmy dead. His voice returned full strength. “Eliza says we’re coming over in the morning to bring you breakfast.” SITTING SHIVAH “I don’t know how,” said Ilka. Joe Bernstine remembered that when his father died his mother had turned the faces of the mirrors to the wall. Ilka was struck by the gesture but embarrassed by its drama. “I know I’m supposed to sit on a low stool, but I can’t get any lower,” she said. She was sitting on the floor tickling Maggie, the fat, solemn, comfortable baby. Baby Maggie’s eyes were so large that they seemed to round the corner of the little face, with its hanging cheeks. “A baroque baby,” Eliza said. “She’s fun to hold because she collapses her weight in your arms.” Ilka jumped Maggie up and down. “She must have heard me scream when the policemen told me.” Eliza unpacked the tiny tomatoes from her garden. She had baked two long loaves of white bread. Jenny was arranging the cold cuts that she had brought onto the platters she had brought. At some point in the morning Joe and Leslie rose to go to the institute. They would be back in an hour. Leslie bent his fine head over Ilka’s hand and brought it to his lips. Ilka said, “I called my mother and she’s coming tomorrow.” IN THE INSTITUTE Celie, the receptionist, sat at her desk across from the front entrance and fanned herself with an envelope, like someone trying to avoid fainting. She told Betty, one of the assistants, “I talked with him that actual morning! He comes running in, punches the elevator button, doesn’t wait and runs right up those stairs, comes right down. He’s stuffing papers in his briefcase. I told him, ‘You have a good trip now,’ and he says, ‘Oh shit!’ and he’s going to run back up except the elevator door opens, and he gets in.” Betty was able to one-up Celie with her spatial proximity to the dead man, though at a greater temporal remove. The day before James drove to Washington he had tried to open the door into the conference room with papers under his arm, carrying a cup of coffee, saying, “Anybody got a spare hand?” Betty had held the door for him. He had said, “Oh! Thanks!” Could a person for whom one held a door, who said, “Oh shit!” and “Oh! Thanks!” be dead? WORDS TO WRITE TO THE WIDOW Nancy Cohn and Maria Zee talked on the telephone and one-upped each other in respect to who was the more upset. “I got to my office,” said Maria, “and just sat.” “I,” Nancy said, “never made it to the office, because I kept waking up every hour on the hour.” “I never got to sleep! I kept waking poor Zack to check if he was alive. He was fit to be tied.” “Have you called her?” “I thought I would write.” “That’s what I will do. I’ll write her,” said Nancy. SITTING SHIVAH, DAY TWO “It’s good of you to come,” Ilka said to the visitors. The institute staff dropped over together, after office hours. Celie, Betty, Wendy, and Barbara sat around the table in Ilka’s kitchen. The fellows sat in the living room. Ilka’s mother held the baby on her lap. Ilka let out a sudden laugh, and said, “What’ll I do when the party is over!” She rose, picked up little Maggie, and carried her out of the room, up the stairs, past Dr. Stone hiding in the foyer. Dr. Stone believed that by the time Ilka returned he would be ready with a sentence to say to her, but he was relieved, when she came down, that the baby’s head intervened between his face and Ilka’s face, and the front doorbell was ringing again. Martin Moses, a junior member, walked in, took Ilka and her baby into a big hug, and said, “Christ, Ilka!” Ilka said, “Don’t I know it.” “Give her to me,” Ilka’s mother said and took the child out of Ilka’s arms. Alpha came out of the living room, saying, “Hello, Martin. Ilka, listen, take it easy. You take a couple of days—as long as you like, you know that! Alfred, we have to go.” And the Ayes and the Zees had to go home. Celie and the rest left. Martin left. The Shakespeares said they would be back. Ilka thought that everyone had gone when she heard a gentle clatter in the kitchen. Jenny Bernstine was washing dishes. People trickled over in the evening—a smaller crowd, which left sooner. Jenny washed more dishes. When Joe came to pick her up, she looked anxiously at Ilka, who said, “I’m O.K.” WRITING TO THE WIDOW Nancy Cohn went to look for Nat. He was on the living-room couch, watching TV. Nancy said, “I’m embarrassed not to know what to write to Ilka. It’s embarrassing worrying about being embarrassed, for Chrissake!” “Calamity is a foreign country. We don’t know how to talk to the natives.” Nancy said, “You write her. You’re the writer in the family.” “I’m not feeling well,” said Nat. “She’s your colleague!” said Nancy. And so neither of them wrote to Ilka. ______ Maria Zee called Alicia Aye and asked her, “I mean, we went over there. Do we still have to write?” Alicia said, “Alvin says we’ll have her over next time we have people in.” A CASSEROLE Celie cooked a casserole and told Art, her thirteen-year-old, to take it over to Mrs. Carl’s house. “The woman that her husband burned up in his car? No way!” Linda, who was fifteen, said, “For your information, he did not even burn up. He broke his neck.” She advised her brother to check his facts. Art said, “Linda will go and take it over to her.” Well, Linda wasn’t going over there, not by herself, so Celie made them both go. Nobody answered the front bell. Art said, “I never knew a dead person before.” Linda said, “You mean you never knew a person and afterward they died, and you didn’t as a fact even know this person at all.” Art said, “But I know Mom, and Mom knew him. Ring it again.” They found a couple of bricks, piled one on top of the other, and took turns standing on them to look in the window. Those were the stairs the dead man must have walked up and down on. There was a little table with a telephone on it, and a chair. Had the dead man sat on that exact chair and lifted that phone to his ear? RUNNING AWAY Yvette Gordot, the institute’s economist, who had not called on Ilka, drove over, rang the bell, saw the casserole by the front door, thought, She’s out, skipped down the steps, got in her car, and drove away. “She was out,” Dr. Stone reported to his wife. “Who was?” “Ilka was out, with the baby. I practically fell over the stroller, corner of Euclid.” “What did you say to her?” Alpha asked him “Say?” said Alfred. “Nothing. She was across the street on the other sidewalk.” Trying to imagine an impossibility hurts the head. Having failed to envisage Alfred falling over a stroller that was on the other sidewalk, Alpha chose to assume that she had missed or misunderstood some part of what he had told her. Alfred came to remember not what had happened but what he said had happened. The unspoken words he owed the widow displaced themselves into his chest and gave him heartburn. NIGHT CONVERSATION “Celie left a casserole. Alfred fell into Maggie’s stroller,” Ilka reported to the Shakespeares when they phoned at eleven that night. Leslie said, “Eliza says, ‘What did Alfred say to you?’ ” “He slapped his forehead the way you’re supposed to slap your forehead when you remember something you’ve forgotten—and ran across the street to the other sidewalk. Poor Alfred! He’s so beautiful.” Eliza took the phone from Leslie. “Why ‘poor Alfred’ when he’s behaving like a heel?” she asked Ilka. Ilka said, “Because Jimmy’s death is making him shy of me. He thinks it’s impolite of him to be standing upright.” Eliza said, “The good Lord intended Alfred to be your basic shit, and Alfred went into medicine in the hope of turning into a human being.” “Doesn’t he get points for hoping?” “Why can’t you just be offended?” “Don’t know,” said Ilka. “I mean, people can’t help being heels and shits.” “You sound like Jimmy,” said Eliza, and Ilka listened and heard the sound, over the telephone, of Eliza weeping for Ilka’s husband. INVITING THE WIDOW Nancy said, “We’ll have her in when we have people over. The Stones are coming Sunday. Only, you think she wants to be around people?” “Call her and ask her?” said Nat. “You call her and ask her.” “I’m not going to call her. You call her.” “She’s your colleague, you call her.” “I’m not well.” “I don’t think she wants to be around people,” Nancy said. “And her mother is staying with her.” DR. ALFRED STONE Dr. Alfred Stone continued to mean to say to the widow what, as a doctor—as the doctor who had been on the scene of the accident—he ought and must surely be going to say to her. He always thought that by the next time he was face to face with her he would have found the appropriate words, and blushed crimson when he walked into the Shakespeares’ kitchen and saw little Maggie sitting in a high chair and Ilka crawling underneath the table. She said, “Hi, Alfred. Look what Maggie did to poor Eliza’s floor! And now Bethy is going to take Maggie to play in the yard so the grownups can sit down in peace and quiet. O.K., Bethy. She’s all yours!” Bethy Bernstine had grown bigger and bulkier. The bend of Bethy’s waist, as she buttoned the baby into her sweater, cried out to her parents, to her parents’ friends, Watch me buttoning the baby’s sweater! Bethy’s foot on the back stair into the yard pleaded, This is me taking the baby into the yard. Notice me! Murphy’s Law seated Dr. Alfred Stone next to the widow. While the conversation was general, he tried for a sideways view of her face, which was turned to Eliza on her other side. Alfred was looking for the mark on Ilka, the sign that her husband had been thrown from a burning car and had broken his neck. Alfred studied his wife across the table. Would Alpha, if he, Alfred, broke his neck, look so regular and ordinary? Would she laugh at something Eliza said? ______ As they were leaving, Alpha asked Ilka to dinner and Ilka said, “If I can get a sitter. My mother has gone back to New York.” Jenny Bernstine offered Bethy. After that, and for the next few weeks, the friends and colleagues invited Ilka to their dinners. She always said yes. “I’m afraid,” she told the Shakespeares, “that my first ‘No, thank you’ will facilitate the next no and start a future of noes.” Then, one day, as she was driving herself to the Zees’, Ilka drove past their house, made a U-turn, and drove home. She insisted on paying Bethy for the full evening. “We missed you,” Leslie said on the telephone. “How come it gets harder instead of easier? You put on your right stocking and there’s the left stocking to still be put on, and the right and the left shoe . . . ” Ilka heard Leslie tell Eliza what Ilka said. In the morning, Ilka called Maria Zee to apologize, and Maria said, “Don’t be silly!” “A rain check?” “Absolutely,” said Maria. “Or you call me!” “Absolutely,” said Ilka. But Ilka did not call her, and Maria did not call Ilka. One’s house seemed more comfortable without Ilka from Calamity. BETHY BERNSTINE The Bernstines and the Shakespeares were the true friends. Ilka loved them and missed Jimmy because he was missing the pleasure of Eliza’s risotto and of Leslie’s wine that yielded taste upon taste on the tongue. Ilka held out her glass, watched Joe’s hand tip the bottle, and thought, Joe will die, not now, not soon, maybe, but he will die. Ilka saw Jenny looking at her with her soft, anxious affection and thought, Jenny will die. “Will you forgive me,” Ilka said to them, “if I take myself home?” Of course, of course! Leslie must drive Ilka. “Absolutely not! Honestly! You would do me the greatest possible favor if you would let me go by myself.” “Joe will drive Ilka.” “Let me drive you!” said Joe. “No, no, no!” cried Ilka. They could see that she was distraught. “Let Ilka alone,” said Leslie. “Ilka will drive herself. Ilka will be fine.” Leslie and Joe came out to put Ilka into her car. She saw them, in the rearview mirror, as she drove away, two old friends standing together, talking on the sidewalk. There would be a time when both of them would have been dead for years. Bethy was curled on the couch, warm and smelling of sleep, her skin sweet and dewy. Cruel for a sixteen-year-old to be plain—too much chin and jowl, the little, pursed, unhappy mouth. Ilka woke Bethy with a hand on her shoulder. She helped the girl collect herself, straighten her bones, pick her books off the floor. Ilka walked her out and stood on the sidewalk. Maggie was sleeping on her back, arms above her head, palms curled. In her throat, and behind her eyes, Ilka felt the tears she could not begin to cry and she feared that beast in the jungle which might, someday, stop the tears from stopping. When Leslie called to make sure she had got home, Ilka said, “I’ve been doing arithmetic. Subtract the age I am from the age at which I’m likely to die and it seems like a hell of a lot of years.” ______ Though the words Dr. Alfred Stone had failed to say to Ilka had become inappropriate and could never be said, he tended, when they were in the same room, to move along the wall at the furthest remove from where Ilka might be moving or standing or sitting. 
Freight In February of 1939, having failed to establish myself as a screenwriter in Hollywood, I decided to hitchhike back to New York, where my future wife waited. It was a bland California morning, pleasant and calm. The rendezvous with my friend Royer, who was to take me to a road frequented by hitchhikers, was effected with a minimum of anxiety. I was early; he was a half hour late. He said little en route. Remarks about the highway, tags and scraps of nervous observations. The miles slipped by all too quickly, covering only the merest jot of the great journey stretching before me, the great journey I would soon have to undertake unassisted, unbefriended, and in ignorance. Where my highway toward El Centro and Royer’s toward a walnut ranch forked he let me off. We shook hands. I stood a minute looking after the dwindling vehicle, loath to surrender my last connection to companionship, to someone concerned. The car disappeared around a curve in the road. Undoubtedly I was too reticent, undoubtedly I was too shy. For all my tentative thumbing, my waggling and waving of arms, I got only as far as the next town, and by then the winter sun was already low in the west. A fellow-hitchhiker offered to guide me to the place he was going to stay: it was something better than a flophouse, he said, but not much. About a mile hike brought us to the place, and it fitted his description—not much better than a flophouse on the Bowery, the chief difference being the absence of drunks standing, drooping and tattered, in the doorway. Evidently aimed at a clientele of transients like myself, it went by the improbable name of the Dew Drop Inn, and cost fifty cents a night per cubicle. Furnished with only a bed and a light, it was innocent of heat at night, with no showers in evidence, only lavatories and crappers. I was counselled by the occupant of the neighboring cubicle, a little wiseacre with a mustache, to make for Holtville, rather than the route that looked shortest, because it was better travelled and better for picking up rides. It was a cinch to Holtville—the wise guy with the mustache was right. Effortlessly, I parlayed one ride into another, and reached Holtville early in the afternoon. And there I stuck. And not only I—a whole file of hitchhikers, ludicrous in our numbers, compared with the trickle of traffic going our way. The reason for the scarcity of vehicles wasn’t hard to find: from Holtville to Yuma, Arizona, next leg of the journey, lay a stretch of road, fifty miles or more, through desert, devoid of towns. Not only did few autos and trucks make the trip, but for us hitchhikers only the whole trip was of any use. Otherwise, we’d be marooned in the middle of nowhere, in or between hamlets without names, tiny blank circles on a map. Though some trucks did pass by, truckers were enjoined by their insurance companies or by their employers not to pick up riders. The driver of the very infrequent passenger car that went all the way, who might have wished to give someone a lift, seeing that long file strung out along the highway, must have feared that he would be mobbed if he stopped for anyone. The hours went by; so did the cars and trucks, but I advanced not a yard toward Yuma. And, as far as I could see, neither did anyone else, though most of us must have marched at least five miles back and forth in the hope of finding a more propitious station whereon to stab the air with our thumbs: futile Jack Horners were we. One heard the flinty jests of desperation: some guys had been here for three days (I could well believe it); some had applied for resident status. Many hitchhikers, I could see, having abandoned all hope of getting out of town eastward, had crossed the highway and were thumbing their way back west—and with far greater success. Anything to get out of Holtville, I thought. But then I learned that their aim was to backtrack to a railroad junction and hop a freight from there. To hell with the highways, they said. I felt the same way myself. But, at a loss, I continued to stab the air with my thumb. Then I struck up with a short-statured wise guy. I thought for a moment that he was the one I had met in the flophouse the evening before, who had advised Holtville as my best bet. But he wasn’t. This wise guy had no mustache. Nor would he ever have blown his last fifty cents for a flop, as I soon discovered. He was as brash a guy as ever I met; his story was that he drove new automobiles from Detroit to California, which somehow enabled the dealer to avoid paying an entry tax. Now and then, he drove a “hot” car, a stolen car, from one state to another. In between, he sold used cars. He had been on a drunk for days. Now he was penniless. He had eaten nothing since yesterday; he was beating his way back to Texarkana, his home town. He knew all the ropes, all modes of travel, both highway—which he damned with heartfelt anathema—and freights. If only he could get to Yuma and the freight yards, wouldn’t he show the rest of these lugs how to move? Acting with all the due circumspection of one who has only a few dimes on his person, after great deliberation I invited him into one of the truck stops for coffee and doughnuts. I now had a buddy. His name was Johnny Graham. We thumbed in tandem now, buddies, but to no avail. Seeking luckier spots, we passed and passed again the prominent sign on the road that read: “Soliciting Rides Liable to Chain Gang.” “I’m gonna steal that goddam sign,” Johnny threatened. But night came, and, lit up by approaching headlights that never slowed down, the sign was still there. So were we. At last, miraculously, our symbiosis paid off. Because I treated him to another round of doughnuts and coffee in the truck stop, he and I were free to solicit drivers, our fellow-diners, directly. My polite entreaties got me only “Sorry, bud, it’s my job.” For all his brazen importunings, his truck-driver cant, his bold familiarity, Johnny didn’t fare any better. A few times, truck drivers seemed on the point of yielding, but thought better of it. Then, at 2:15 A.M., Johnny’s tactics paid off: “All right, you win,” the trucker said. In the back of the cab, behind the driver and his helper, was a concealed bunk, and that was to be our hidden roost for the next fifty miles. The truck butted through the freezing, thin night air, the treads of the heavy tires crooning to the highway asphalt. Through the bunk’s portholes, single stars kept pace with us for long distances, steady as icy rivets. The truck slowed down, came to a stop. In the cold void, we heard a woman’s voice, though we could see no one, a young woman’s voice, cheery and clear, in greeting. And then the cab door opened, slammed shut; again the heavy vehicle lumbered into speed. Johnny and I merely looked at each other. All that mattered was that we were rolling toward Yuma. Perhaps another quarter to a half hour passed, and then the truck came to a stop. We heard the driver get out: “Far as I can take you, fellas.” He opened the bunk door. “Can’t take you into town.” “Sure! Sure!” We understood. We sprang from the bunk down to the highway. “Thanks, Mister. Thanks, pal. Thanks a million.” The truck stayed there, and we soon walked out of range of its dimmed headlights. Incurious, we did not turn at the sound of truck door opening, thudding closed. With hope renewed, we walked briskly toward the east, toward a horizon still seamless with night, starry, in quiet, keen air, and made out the first city lights about a half mile away: Yuma. And soon we were treading sidewalk. The gleam of a diner pried into the dark street, promising warmth, food, coffee, against the inhospitable desert gloom behind us. “Coffee an’?” I invited. “Sure would.” Sheer animal hunger sounded in his plea. We entered, into humid comfort, found stools, ordered—coffee and two doughnuts apiece (at a cost of ten cents each) and, asking the waitress to hold it a sec, took turns to the lavatory. And now, refreshed, another brisk walk, to the freight yards, as the night sky streaked into abrasion of dawn. Johnny spoke to other hobos moving along the gravel lanes between freights, and we found a boxcar and clambered aboard. We congratulated ourselves on being alone, on having a private freight car. Alas, too soon. By the time the gray gravel between tracks shone in broad daylight, twenty more birds of passage had joined us. The door of the boxcar opened briefly on warm sunshine when a belated hobo climbed aboard, and rolled closed again. And finally, after those rumblings and bumpings, the mysterious joltings heralding the setting forth of freight trains, we clanked into motion, picked up speed, and were on our way. We rolled the door open to let in the sun. Some of us stretched out on the boxcar floor; some lay jackknifed against the walls; some sat. A gray bearded old hobo, a “bindle stiff,” Johnny labelled him, methodically unfurled various-sized rectangles of blanket and, sighing tranquilly, with hands locked together, reclined on his improvised couch, his head propped up by a stained knapsack. I found a place next to Johnny. I hadn’t slept in twenty-four hours. Awhile I watched in gratitude as the spectacular Arizona landscape whizzed past the open boxcar door—sunny butte and sloping sunlit mesa. And then overpowering drowsiness meshed everything together into a single clacking carrousel. Ah, what was more wonderful than travelling by freight! The train made a stop in Tucson. How long it would stay there nobody knew. For an hour or so, we joined the other hobos basking on the sun-warmed planks adjacent to the railroad street crossing. And then, bored, impatient, we strolled over to Main Street and, with the security of outcasts, studied the prosperous citizenry. A rodeo was due to be held that afternoon, so the town may have had more than its usual complement of visitors, and these and the notices of the coming diversion, and the air of anticipation engendered by it, beguiled us into loitering overlong. When we got back to the freight yard, our train had left. Another was due in a little while, the hobos said. And, soon after, it thundered into the yard, slowing down, but only as if it meant to go on. I ran alongside at top speed, Johnny behind me. I had already been instructed never to grab the steel ladder at the end of a boxcar, but only the one at the beginning—in the direction the train was moving—because a miss on the rear ladder might mean plunging headlong under the wheels of the following car, while a miss on the front ladder would only send me slamming against the freight wall, and I would be hurled back, away from the train. So I made a grab for the front-end ladder, grasped, held on, climbed up to the catwalk atop the freight, knelt, clung to the catwalk—and the train suddenly stopped. Johnny howled with laughter. “Jeez, that is funny,” I said. “Risk your neck, and have the train stop.” “No. You’re funny.” “Me?” “You’re hot shit, the way you grab a train on the fly.” Johnny guffawed again. “If I ever saw anybody who couldn’t make up his mind gettin’ on a freight, it’s you.” “Yeah? Why?” “Chrissake, grab the goddam ladder. It ain’t gonna bite ye.” Chagrined at my ineptitude, I followed Johnny along the catwalk, leaping the gap from car to car. But chagrin was a luxury I couldn’t afford here; even reflecting on it was inadmissible for somebody being whittled down to nobody, just another hobo, and an incompetent one at that. Pay attention. Watch what you’re doing. “Here’s a reefer,” Johnny said. He pulled up the rust-covered hatch and peered down. “Nobody in it.” In the dark refrigerator compartment, its length running the width of the freight, and little more than a yard wide, a steel ladder, affixed to the wall, led down to the bottom. We descended, and looked back overhead, where the reefer hatch could be rigged ajar by an attached rod. Johnny climbed up a few rungs and set the rod. “You got an extra handkerchief, right?” “Yeah. What d’you want?” “Gimme it, will ye?” And, taking the handkerchief, he wedged it under the supporting brackets of the tilted hatch. “That’s so a brakey knows we’re down here.” He climbed down and explained: tramps asleep when the brakeman overhead locked the hatch in freezing weather—to protect the cargo—had been frozen to death when the car was left on a siding out of earshot. “I get it.” The train began moving. We half sat, half reclined on the reefer floor. It was not a solid floor but a drainage floor: curved steel bars about a half-inch thick with two-inch spaces between them enabled the water of melting ice cakes in the summer to escape to a tray and the tracks beneath. The steel drainage scimitars pressed cruelly into my buttocks. Johnny soon fell asleep. I lit my pipe, and watched smoke vent through the transom of the rigged hatch into the narrow dusk of day’s end. The chill penetrated as the light faded . Soon, frigid dark roared into the confines of the empty ice compartment. How to pass the long night? Long night awake . . . long night cold . . . long night on a freight, five days old . . . long night of clackety-clack, clackety-clack on wheels pounding eastward over the segmented tracks . . . Howooo. Train whistled approaching a level crossing. What crossing? A crossing in Texas. How to pass the long cold night? Why, writer manqué, are you not? Novelist manqué, no? Desperately balked of all the narratives that you tried, narratives that came to naught, no? Came to nort, all abort. Why, sternly bring your faculties to a focus by composing an autobiography, freely associative . . . but governed by implicit rules of narration . . . augment suspense toward a climax . . . a climax that would exclude present distress. Hey, good ground rules: augment suspense toward a climax . . . that would exclude . . . the cold ache of legs as you lean against the swaying wall, the icy carving of the scimitar bars into butt . . . or shoulder . . . or flank, driving you upright again. Where would you begin? You already told them of your Lower East Side boyhood in one novel; what would you do, then? No, what happens in this vision I have, in this early manhood, seems to defy the ground rules I just laid down. In this thundering crypt above the rails, I see my life as pivoting about certain crucial, certain critical points, where the event determined the rest, the lamentable sequence that followed inexorably in its wake. Clackety-clack. Clackety-clack. The year is 1914. Now, that’s one year after the year in which my novel concludes. Right? Here’s the nub of the disaster: Zayde and Baba (grandfather, grandmother), two uncles, and two aunts, one skip ahead of the Great War, depart Galicia, sell—Zayde does—the little gevelb, the little store, in the little hamlet of Veljish (on no map at all), which pays for second-class passage to Ameritchka, to New York, to join us. Now, were it not for that semi-Americanized whoremonger of a hotel waiter, my uncle Saul, who looked down his snooty beak at the East Side, and persuaded the Galitzianer pilgrims to settle in Harlem, ah, how different my history would have been, how different I. For Mom would have been content to remain on the East Side, in our lofty aerie overlooking the breezy East River, on Avenue D and Ninth Street. And I would not have been plucked out of my Orthodox Yiddish mini-state like a what? Vegetable, or a mandrake in Blake’s etching. I would have grown up in unquestioned Orthodoxy, tough little cocksure fisticuffian gamin, who had to hide under the bed when mothers came looking for him for having bloodied their kids’ noses. Me, I, alas, who in the course of a single year among the Irish on 119th Street in East Harlem went from a wiry kid to “Fat, fat, the water rat. Fifty bullets in your hat.” Oh, don’t blame the Irish. I was outnumbered, and hung around Mom, even learning to embroider cloth between two hoops while I sat on the stoop beside her. Jewboy Achilles become Mama’s boy, tied to her apron strings. Oh, don’t blame the Irish. I should have fought, biffed and battled, for I was once good at it, and that was their language: biff and battle. I had nothing else to recommend me: poor eyes, maladroit, too, couldn’t catch a ball and couldn’t throw one, lousy at stickball. Who knew about such goyish sports on the East Side? Or marbles, or pitching pennies? But don’t blame the Irish. A punch in the nose for a punch in the nose. Jew bastard! But oh, untroubled I had been in my milieu, amid jabbering Jews under the omnipotent sway of a Hebrew God. And then I was suddenly hurled into the alien and incomprehensible goyish maw of East Harlem. Wanna fight? No. So don’t blame the Irish. . . . Go sit and brood, sit and brood, if you can rest your ass on serried scimitars. But that was the first, that was the first switch in the tracks, I still insist. First major fork in life’s journey. And clackety-clack and clackety-clack all you damn please. The movers stole Mom’s red coral beads. Red coral beads, red coral beads, Mom’s mourned-for cherry-red coral beads. They disappeared in transit to Harlem. But I got no support, I got no support. What the hell do you expect of a kid who had a timid mouse of a father, frightened, panicky, whacked the daylights out of me when Mrs. True from upstairs accused me of pushing her kid to the sidewalk, which I never did, but the pack of little goyim he was with ran when I turned in mock menace. She slapped me in front of Pop, and then he added a barbarous beating, so atrocious that dumpy, squat Mrs. Shapiro from the first floor intervened: “You’ll destroy your own son for a goya?” And Mom arrived from shopping, frantic hearing my screams all the way through the hall, planting herself before Pop, the frenzied madman, and demanding of Mrs. True belligerently, “Vot you vant?” Oh, my mother. How ugly, how lowering gloomy the kitchen setting. Oh, my mother. Beaten the hell out of, drubbed to a whimper, to a snivelling nullity— Try rolling over to the other flank. I can’t say it often enough. They had no right to pluck me out like a radish, like a beet, like a scallion, like a parsnip from among my own. And force me to grow hydroponically, a root crop like me, that adored the dirt and the din of the twoscore streets of my Jewish mini-state. The irony of it: Zayde, given name Ben Zion, Orthodox Jew with a beard, comes to these shores with his family, and undoes Orthodoxy. You forget the anticipation, the delirious anticipation of the June day, sitting two flights up in the new apartment prepared for them by Saul and Mamie, my aunt, who lived across the street on 115th Street between Park and Madison, a nice “bitvinn” it was called. What did that little tyke imagine his newly arriving kinfolk would look like? Rich, generous, loving Jewish nobility come to rescue him from the unhappiness of the hostile goyish environment of 119th Street! Jewish nobility come to irradiate his unhappy home life! Empathetic, aye, opulent kinfolk, informed with novelty, with captivating fable, proffering handfuls of silver coins, endlessly doting, endlessly rejoicing in him. Instead, getting out of the two taxicabs to the screams of hysterical Mamie from on high of “Tata, Tata! Oy, Mama, Mamaleh!” that drew the attention of all passersby within earshot on the street below were six ordinary, newly arrived, bewildered Jewish immigrants from Galicia in the erstwhile Austrian Empire. With Saul overseeing the unloading of persons and baggage, amid commotion in the hall, the newcomers and their escorts ascended to the apartment. Everybody rushed in. Embraces ensued, resounding embraces. Under the supervision of Zayde, the newcomers were herded to the kitchen sink, and each rinsed his or her mouth with salt water. I swear, they rinsed it with something. Epsom salts? Nah. Go ask an Orthodox Jew. But that isn’t the crux of the matter; the crux of the matter is, or was, that your dreams of noble permissiveness, openhanded, free-hearted affection, contracted into a bearded, paunchy Jew who spoke Yiddish so dense you could scarce make way against it, contracted into a Slavic, snub-nosed, gentle, dear, depleted Baba, with little gold-rimmed eyeglasses, dam of a dozen offspring. The older of the two immigrant uncles looked like Baba, stocky, aged eighteen, with a head of thick, wavy chestnut hair, and the younger uncle, long-nosed and straight-haired, dazed into reticence, stood apart, gangly and tall. One aunt, the older, was composed and slow-spoken, while the other aunt was green-toothed, erratic, and noisy with excitement. Both homely. I shrank. Too much to absorb, all their lopsided gesticulations, shrugging, their grimaces and outcries: “Oy, gevalt un azoy, oy, gevalt un azoy! Takeh emes? Un azoy! Oy ich khalesh un azoy!” With Mom’s permission to leave, with a nickel to comfort me, but still dejected, I walked to Central Park, and there climbed the granite outcrop atop the rowboat-dotted lake on 110th Street. And along a crease in the ground in a bosky grove where ran a little trickle of rainwater I became the buckskinned and fringed American Scout, self-reliant, self-sufficient, in the pristine wilderness of America I knelt down and drank, in ritual, dim commitment. Sipping from the polluted rivulet in much-trodden Central Park. That’s not the crux; that’s just a boyhood memory. Oh, my legs ache, ache standing. But sitting down is scant comfort on a seat of sabres. The brain incandesces and fades, synapses glow and gutter out. You left Judaism, right? Right, ol’ boy, ol’ boy. Left Judaism, and damn glad to. You go with Zayde on a sleepy summer Shabbes to the shul, to the prayer-book musty tenement ground-floor synagogue, sit hour after hour and daven where shown, pray but not know what for, glibly match the right sounds to the printed letters, as you were taught to do on the East Side. And Zayde’s proud of you, his oldest grandson, sure, sure, growing up devout. But the thing wears threadbare for a kid, is a hell of a bore—even though, ah, that was fun, at the Havdalah service—Havdalah, wasn’t it? Half a dollah. To be made much of by the other bearded Jews, Shloymeh F., Zayde’s so dignified older brother, actually wore a shiny silk top hat on Shabbes, what a stereotype target for snowballs if he’d ever appeared in my part of Harlem, among the juvenile scamps, Shloymeh with his forked gray beard and proud bearing and rich clearing of the throat. And the other pious congregants offering the only urchin at the Havdalah wine and lovely segments of salt herring, and—man, when that hit my palate the first time!—ripe wrinkled Greek olives. All right, all right, sit down, if you can’t stand up anymore. But the novelty wasn’t enough to keep you coming regularly. So you shirked. And you and little Eddy F., the Irish widow janitor’s kid, became friends, and he showed you how to make tin-can telephones that stretched on a string from his flat on the ground floor to yours a flight up the worn stairs. And after many a fuzzy greeting, many a humming giggle and blurry message, you were well on the way to shedding your Judaism. I stood up. Cold vacancy, interminable rattle and roar, my partner curled up in sleep, and a single blue star trailing like a distant kite, in and out of view. I’m tired of your yarn. The point is I’m here on this jigging jiggling freight. I survived. I’ll wait the goddam night out. I’m surly, I’m rancorous. Weariness thrust in abeyance by the sudden thud on the roof of the freight car, I looked up: thud. Someone had leaped from one freight roof to another. The reefer hatch was lifted. Density of a person obliterating his shape of night sky, bowed, “Who down dere?” under stars spreading all about him. “Hey, you—you down dere?” A Negro voice. “We are!” I yelled up. And alarmed: “Hey, Johnny!” “Wha’ ?” “How many you down dere?” Apprised in an instant, and instantly hostile: “There’s two of us down here already. That’s enough. We don’t want no more.” The one overhead lingered for a moment, and then withdrew. “Boy, it’s cold up there right out in the open. I hope he finds someplace to hide,” I said. “He’s a nigger. He’ll find a place to duck. I never worry about ’em.” Arkansas spoke through Johnny. “I wonder where the hell he’s been? Come out all of a sudden that way.” “He should have stayed wherever he was, God damn him. I was sleepin’ good. I mighta slept all the way to El Paso.” He reached for his cap, massaged his glimmering features, yawned noisily, his teeth gleaming at the terminal grunt. An hour later, Johnny’s glimmering face tipped up toward the roof. “You hear that?” “I think so.” “Is that the nigger again?” “I don’t know.” “It can’t be a shacky.” “No? Why not?” “If he was closin’ up the reefers, we’da heard them other hatches slam.” “You mean closed against the cold?” “Yeah. It’s that black bastard.” Certainty grew, grew as swiftly as the distant thud of someone landing on the catwalk at the farther end of the freight became bounding footsteps approaching. Desperate hands raised the hatch overhead. “Hey, I’m comin’ down, man. I’m freezin’.” “There’s two of us down here already. I told you. Stay out!” “Dere’s three, fo’ in de others. Dere’s five in one.” “Bullshit. Keep goin’.” “Been over de whole freight, man. Dere’s only two o’ you.” The voice was young. “I’m comin’ down.” “You try it! I’m tellin’ you, boy. Two’s enough down here.” The figure peering down from above didn’t seem so much uncertain as restrained, trying to sense by instinct what the temper was below, the forces he had to brace himself to confront. “For Christ sake, let him come down,” I whispered. “What for? Fuck’s too lazy to go all the way up to the locomotive. There’s lots o’ reefers.” “That hatch cover! Jesus, if he locked us in— You crazy?” “I’m comin’ down, man.” Raised all the way, the hatch opened into a transom gorged with stars. Cascades of starlight poured through the gaping sluice above as he stooped, took his first step down, his booted foot seeking the rung below; and before he closed the hatch, stemming the flood of starlight above him, something—something metallic—glinted in the same hand. Down he came to the reefer bottom—woefully underclad, only a jacket over his shirt. With hands in pockets, “Man, I’m cold. Gettin’ out o’ dat wind like comin’ to a stove.” “It’s all right,” I said. Johnny moved silently to my side of the compartment. “I guess we got room,” I said. “Where were you?” “In a gondola. Layin’ flat an’ huggin’ de bottom. Man, I like to freeze to death. I said I gotta get outa here, I gotta get outa here, ’fo’ I freeze stiff. I tried ridin’ behind a tank car. Too cold to live.” “You want a smoke?” “Sleep. Dat’s what I want, man.” He took his hand out of his jacket pocket. “I ’fraid to go to sleep in dat gondola. If I fall asleep in dat gondola, dey pick me up froze harder’n a rock. This is the fust time I feel safe to sleep.” Drawing his knees up, his small hat jammed down on his head, he slipped to the reefer floor, and as he turned on his side he retrieved a short length of glinting metal from his jacket pocket, slid the hand holding the object between the curved steel bars of the drain, and deposited the glinting piece on the drip pan beneath. He was asleep in a minute—coughed himself awake; his hand groped between drainage bars, and, reassured, he stretched out his legs as far as he could, hat still jammed down on his small head, motionless, audibly, he fell asleep. “He’s got a knife,” Johnny whispered. “I guess so.” “Son of a bitch. That’s why he come down. Two of us, he figured, an’ he’s got a knife.” “What the hell’s the difference?” I hissed. “He’s asleep, isn’t he? That’s all he wanted.” “How do you know?” “Oh, bullshit.” The pervasive shadowy Jew in the background flinched against myriad wounds suffered in centuries past. “Listen, Johnny, I’m not going to argue about it. It’s a waste of time. You want to stretch out and go to sleep? Go ahead. I can’t sleep. I’ll—I’ll watch.” “I’m not afraid of him. It ain’t that. They’re all yeller anyway. It’s just that nobody else’d let him down, an’ we did. Shit, they’d tell him there was six in the reefer.” An angry silence. Better keep quiet. Futile: you’ll never penetrate that barrier; you don’t even understand it, can’t put it into words. Screwy. No more sense than a puppy dog chasing his tail. Think of something else. I slid down to his end of the steel bars of the drainage floor. “Ow.” Released from aching knees, I welcomed the few minutes of respite before the rigid scimitars against my buttocks supplanted old pain with new. “I can see what he’s got.” Johnny settled beside him. “You can?” Listlessly, “What?” “Table knife, that’s all. It’s no goddam razor.” “All right. I got a jackknife. How’s that?” “Better git it out an’ keep it open. Just keep it open in your jacket pocket.” “Oh, for Christ sake.” Peevishly, I rolled my rump away from the biting drainage bars, pulled the jackknife out of my back pocket, opened the three-inch Boy Scout blade, and exhibited it. “You stab with it,” Johnny said. “Go right for the belly. Know what I mean? You hold the blade down with your thumb and stab.” “Oh, nuts.” I dropped the open jackknife into my jacket pocket. “Yeah?” “Yeah,” I retorted angrily. “You know what I think? You got it ass backward. That poor colored guy is carrying that cheesy knife to protect himself. That’s why. They wouldn’t let him into any of the reefers. You can tell why he came down here. If he was going to fight for his life to keep from freezing, we were his best chance. Jesus, can’t you see that? The guy’s sleeping on that goddam steel like a feather bed. Look at him. He hasn’t moved an inch in all this time. Doesn’t hear us. Anything. He’s absolutely worn out.” “Worn out, my ass. He’s used to it. You don’t know these fuckin’ niggers. They’re tougher’n rawhide.” “O.K. I’ve had enough. I don’t want to talk about it anymore.” Bang and jerk of freight-car coupling. Each time the car slacked its motion over flat Texas, I reflected, the locomotive had to jerk it onward. That goddam boob and his nigger nuttiness had me sitting here with an open Boy Scout knife in my jacket pocket. Christ, absent-minded as I was—and cold—I was apt to cut myself before I cut anybody else. I ought to snap the blade closed before I thrust my hand in my pocket to warm my fingers. Boy, that crazy Arkansas bastard. Wasn’t he crazy? “Want the tobacco?” I made a peace overture. “Nah. . . . Thanks. I’m beginnin’ to feel like a little shut-eye again.” “Yeah? Wish I could say the same. I feel it, but it doesn’t do me any good.” “What’re you gonna do? Be a watchman till light?” “I don’t know. It looks that way.” “Aw, let’s have a smoke, if you’re not going to sleep. O.K.?” I brought out the can of Prince Albert. We rolled cigarettes, struck a match, lighting up the thin, jackknifed form sound asleep on the gleaming steel drainage bars. We smoked in silence. Nothing to do. Lead the way. Pretend to sleep. Maybe the guy would follow suit, and we could drop the subject. I mashed the half-smoked cigarette against a drainage bar, curled on my side. Room enough for my shoes to the side of the sleeper’s boots . . . The stratagem worked. In a few minutes, when I cautiously lifted my head to peer, with arm pillowing face, Johnny’s dark form lay bunched in sleep. Jesus, the arch-enemies, offset, end to end, nether to nether, like a what? Couldn’t think of anything. Feet to feet. Two feet to feet. Eine kleine Nachtmusik . . . in a reefer . . . That was sleep coming on, sleep. Ah, sleep, it is a precious thing, beloved from pole to pole . . . Oh, threshold, beautiful threshold of let go. Utterly spent, I slept until after daybreak, until after morning light was framed in the rigged hatch overhead, unaware that my two fellow-travellers were standing hunched over at opposite walls of the reefer, saying little. I awoke when the freight’s tempo changed, the slowing down of motion allowing the distinct creak of car and train tracks beneath to emerge from the roar. “We comin’ to de yahds,” the young Negro said, slender and limber, now that I could see him—and chipper, too, in movement. He had apparently slept the night through from the minute he lay down. “We’re gittin’ to El Paso,” Johnny said. “C’mon, wake up. We got to get ready to get off her.” Dreary and stiff, I got to my feet. “No bull ketch me climbin’ down,” the Negro youth announced confidently. “Ah run him a race on de roof to a gondola, an’ den oveh de other side.” “Yeah? What if he pulls a gun?” “Ah jump the other side of de freight, man, like I tol’ you, ’fo’ I let him pistol-whip me.” He seemed capable of it, too, lithe and agile. And as the train kept up its moderate, even rate of speed, he knelt down on one knee, slipped his brown flat wrist through the space between the drainage rails, and brought out the ordinary table knife we had seen him secrete there the night before. The streaked roughness of the crudely sharpened blade flashed a moment in daylight. He dropped it into his jacket pocket. Dully, I weighed his motives. Certainly he wouldn’t dare—against a railroad bull, a man armed with a gun? In Texas? Jesus, he’d be lynched! Why had he waited until daylight to retrieve the weapon . . . to display it? Johnny’s warning interrupted my foggy groping. His words came in a lowered voice and with a kind of worried severity, and, to my surprise, were not about the Negro youth. “You see one, a big guy—” “Who?” “A railroad bull, for Chrissake. You gotta get down an’ away fast. You woke up yet?” “Yeah. What does he do? Wait for every freight that comes in?” “No. But you never know when he’s around. Loosen up. Stamp your feet, wave your arms. C’mon.” “Jesus, I had a helluva night.” “He won’t give a shit about that. Loosen up.” He moved his own arms in prompting, kept a steady gaze on the Negro youth. Who smiled. “Yeah, man, y’gotta git ready to hightail it outa them yahds. What if he Texas Slim?” He allowed himself a gleeful chuckle. “He fast on his feet.” The freight slowed, slowed, jarred, came to a clashing stop, though we still felt in motion. Already the Negro youth had mounted the ladder and was climbing. Speedy and sure, his arm thrust back the hatch. Another rung upward and he heaved himself into open air; he sprang into daylight and disappeared. By the time I mounted the lower rungs, I could hear him climbing down the outside. And up, Johnny crowding behind me let the hatch fall back. Broad daylight. Blue dome of sky. Freight-car roofs in all directions. I had lived through it. I jumped off the bottom rung down to the ground. But the Negro youth was tarrying there, and now I could guess, guess with a degree of certainty, at the same time oddly conscious that I felt no alarm. Standing between ramparts of brick-red and yellow freights, open gondolas, and tank cars, the brown youth in the small, earth-colored hat eyed us, me in particular, right hand in jacket pocket. “Ah’m hungry, man.” “So’re we,” Johnny said. “Sell you my boots, man.” He pulled up his pants, bringing into view stockingless, lean brown shins above the edge of typical cowboy boots. “What y’all say? Sell ’em to yo’ fo’ jest a little money.” The thoughts that scurry through the mind: the whole proposition was preposterous. What the hell was he going to wear? And walk on this gravel? On streets? And in the cold? His wily eyes in his small head, watchful of every move, his wiry, quick body, ready for something, practiced, free and supple as a lynx. And a wickedly sharpened dinner knife hidden in his jacket pocket. And the two of us, yes, Johnny, shallow hard guy, and I, uncertain, untried, had to think of a way out of this, this emergency. Who the hell wanted his boots? He just wanted me to show some money. Forestall him somehow. Say O.K., and ask him how much, ask him to take them off. “Listen,” I said solicitously, “you need those boots. How’re you gonna get around?” “Ah needs breakfas’ mo’n ah needs these boots right now.” “Well, that’s different. You’d be crippled without boots. Wait a minute.” Large-eyed, askance, and as sidelong as a profile out of Egypt, he watched me, the knuckles of his left hand bulging out the thin cloth of the jacket pocket. I fished into my topcoat. I knew there was a dime among the change there. I didn’t want to show any more money than that. But I had forgotten the open Boy Scout knife. It nicked me. Strange, strange: collapsed into unimaginable density as they say happened to a neutron star, all my history seemed in that instant, all its tenets, its dictates. Johnny beside me became tense, as my fingers avoided the open blade and fished for the dime. “Here, keep your boots. Take this dime. Get yourself something to eat.” I handed the youth the dime, conscious of Johnny’s scowl. “Thanks, man.” Lissome again, he took the coin; or, rather, he accepted it, entirely without subservience or obligation, but with a short, triumphant laugh, turning, swiftly, strode jauntily away into the motley perspective between converging freights. “What the hell’d you give him the dough for?” Johnny’s tough visage grimaced. Under the visor of his cap his brow furrowed in a scowl; even his short body all but flapped in a spasm of wrath, so pronounced it gave one the impression of a ripple contrary to the wave, pulses contrary to his stride. We hurried toward a break in the double lines of freights. “We coulda took care of him.” I couldn’t help but grin. “Maybe.” “What d’ye mean, maybe? I wouldn’t let no nigger ride over me.” “I know.” But my mind seemed to be sifting out something worth a minute’s consideration. A kind of insight: that wasn’t the way—this was the important thing—a Negro was supposed to behave. That was it: not the cocksureness, no; then what? A sense of equality, independence. Sure, he had deliberately displayed the weapon to cow us. Or he would have grabbed the dough and run. And he was fast enough to get away. O.K. Whatever. Was I imagining things? Was it really a sign of change? A new stance of the Negro, a new attitude. “It’s only a dime.” Johnny seemed to be going through some kind of parallel evaluation, but one that reached an entirely opposite judgment: “Sure it’s only a dime. But you let him git the better of you, you let him git ahead of you.” “Oh, balls.” I tossed my head. “Get into a fight with a guy with a knife. For a dime?” “I told you we oughta git that cheese dagger away from him while he was asleep. You saw him.” “Well, we didn’t. And now get your throat slashed for ten cents.” “He never would’ve. If we jumped him together, never. If he’d knowed you had a open jackknife, he never would’ve tried it.” “Well, it wasn’t open.” “What for you got your finger scratched?” “I don’t know. Must have done it some other time.” Johnny clawed the air in frustration. “Jesus.” I tried to shunt the conversation into other channels. “He turned out of sight about here, didn’t he?” I leaned forward to squint ahead. “How come we can’t find it?” “We’re comin’ to it. There. I can see the snubbers at the end o’ the tracks. Trouble is you Northe’ners don’t know niggers. You keep lettin’ ’em git more an’ more outa their place. They’ll git us all down that way.” “O.K. I see it. Boy, look at those lines of freights behind us.” “It’s El Paso. It’s a big junction.” Grumpy with each other but trying to reach an accommodation of necessity, knowing that we had to, we let the subject drop. With Johnny leading the way, in silence, like a short bridge to the commonplace, we rounded the spring snubber at the end of a line of freights and tramped out of the yard up the incline to the blacktop highway at the edge. We were now off railroad property, out of danger, in the clear, a couple of grouchy, slouchy, seedy hobos walking by the run-down dwellings at the outskirts of El Paso.
Black Ice When I went up to check my traps, I saw that the porch lights at the lady’s place were still on, even though it was morning. “That’s an atrocious waste of power,” my dad said when I told him. His breath huffed in the air like he was smoking a cigar. The rabbit carcasses steamed when we ripped the skin off, and it came away like a glove. Skin the rabbit—that’s what my mum used to say when she pulled off my shirt and singlet for a bath. Mr. Bailey gives me three dollars for every rabbit, to feed his dogs. I take them down to him in the wooden box with a picture of an apple on it. At the butcher’s, rabbits are only two-fifty but Mr. Bailey says he likes mine better. I’ve got fifty-eight dollars saved. I want to get a bike. Dad thinks it’s good to save up your money. The tourists who stand around the real-estate agent’s window pointing and touching each other on the arm—he reckons they’re loonies. When the lady up the road bought that house, my dad went over after the “Sold” sign got stuck on and everybody had gone. He took one of the clapboards off the side of the house and looked under at the rotting pilings, and made a noise like he was holding back a sneeze. “That lady’s a bloody wacker,” he said. “Those pilings are bloody atrocious.” He stood there looking at the house and rolled a cigarette. “Throwing good money after bad,” he said, and kicked the clapboard. I kicked it, too. After she moved in I didn’t set no more snares up there on the hill. I walked in the state forest on the tracks round the lake, the tracks the rabbits make. I made myself small as a rabbit and moved through them on my soft scrabbly claws. I saw everything differently then. Saw the places where they sat and rested, the spots where they reached up with their noses and ate tiny strips of bark from the bottoms of the river willows. You’ve got to set a trap so that it kills the rabbit straight off. On the leg is no good. All night the rabbit will cry and twist, then you’ll have to kill it in the morning with its eyes looking at you, wondering why you did it. Mr. Bailey, he said he can’t believe that I can catch them so near town. I told him that you just have to watch things and work out where to put the trap, that’s all. He nodded so small you could only just see his chin moving up and down. “You’ve got it there, Billy,” he said. After he paid me we looked at the dogs and had a cup of tea. His dogs know me and why I come. Their eyes get different when they see me. Lately, in the morning, everything is frozen. All up the hill are the gum trees and every time I look at them I think of that day in school when I was right and Mr. Fry was wrong. Mr. Fry showed us a picture and told us that trees lose their leaves in autumn, and the other kids started writing it down, but I felt the words come up, and I said no they don’t lose their leaves, they lose their bark. Mr. Fry said how typical it was that the one time I opened my mouth in class I’d come up with the wrong answer. Now I look at the trees standing bare in the mist and think about how I kept shaking my head when he told me to say I was wrong, and how the other kids sat smiling, staring down at their hands, waiting for after school like the dogs wait for the rabbits. When you smell the leaves, they’re like cough lollies, and the bark goes all colors when it’s wet. One day I was looking at the leaves and my eyes went funny and I flew up high and looked down at the tops of the trees all bunched together and they were like the bumpy green material on the armchairs at my Aunty Lorna’s place. I never told no one about that, not even my dad. The trees talk loud when it’s windy and soft when it’s quiet. I don’t know what they talk about—rain, probably. When they get new gum tips, they’re so full of sap they shiver in the air. Maybe they’re excited. Or frightened. But now that it’s winter the trees just look dark and shrunken, as if they’re hanging on by shutting off their minds, like my grandpop when he had the stroke and Dad said that his body was closing down slowly. On the track there’s ice crystals in the clay, and when you look real close you can see that the crystals are long, growing into lines, and the more mushy the clay the tighter the crystals pack in. They do it in the night, in a cold snap. You can put your foot at the edge of a puddle and just press real gently, and all these little cracks run through it, rushing outward like tiny creeks. Sometimes there’s frost on the rabbits’ fur. I brush it off with my hand. Rabbit fur smells nice, like lichen or dry moss. My mum left behind some leather gloves with rabbit fur inside and when I put them on once I pulled my hot hands out and smelled her smell. “What are you bawling for?” my dad said. I hid the gloves under my mattress. When I touch them they feel like green leaves, soft and dry and bendy, not knowing autumn’s coming. The morning I saw the lady’s porch lights my dad gave me a new hat for my chilblains. He made it for me from rabbit skins. He rubbed my ears hard with his sweater till my mouth ached from holding it shut, then he pulled the rabbit-fur flaps down and tied them. “See you back here with the bunnies,” he said, squeezing his hands under his arms before he stoked up the chip furnace. One day a boy at my school who works at the feed supply told the other kids that we were so backward we didn’t even have hot and cold running water at our place. He said, “It’s like deliverance down there with you-know-who.” I asked Dad what deliverance meant and he rolled a cigarette and said why. The next time he wanted chicken pellets he asked for them to be delivered that day and then he stoked the chip furnace up so high that a spray of boiling water gushed up and hit the roof like rain and it sounded like the fancy coffee machine at the milk bar. When this boy came around with the pellets, Dad told him to empty them into the bin and then asked would he like to wash the dust off his hands in the kitchen. The boy went in. I stood looking at the hens and made myself small like them and felt the straw under my claws as I scratched around, and felt how the wheat powdered as I cracked it in my beak, and then there was a scream and the boy came running out holding his hands in front of him. They were bright pink, like plastic. As the boy ran past, my dad called, “Don’t forget to tell your friends.” I pushed the rabbits into a hessian bag and heard music coming out of the house with the lights on. It was violin stuff. I saw the lady who bought the house come out onto her porch as I cut across the ridge. She was wearing new overalls and you could still see the fold marks in them. She had hair the color of a fox. When she saw me her face went all bright and excited even though she didn’t know me—like the lady doctor who did all those stupid tests on me at school, just saying stupid words and expecting me to make up more words and say them straightaway and not giving me any time to think it over. She said, “Well, hello there, has the cat got your tongue?” She had lipstick on. I thought maybe she was on her way to church. I said I didn’t have a cat and her eyebrows went up. “You’re up very early on this wintry morning. What’s that you’ve got in your bag?” she said, like we were going to play a joke on someone. I showed her the top rabbit’s head and her mouth went funny and she said, “Oh dear, oh the poor little things. What did you want to kill them for?” I said for Mr. Bailey. I said they died very quickly and always got the traps right around their necks. She hugged herself with her arms and shook her head and said, “Goodness me,” looking at my rabbit-skin hat. I turned my head slowly round so she could see it better. She asked me suddenly if I lived in the house down the hill and I said yes. Then she said what a marvellous location and what a shame that it would cost an arm and a leg to put the power through, otherwise she would have made an offer, but this little place she’d picked up was such fun and a gold mine. She said all her friends from the city thought she was quite mad but she’d be the one laughing when property values went up and she’d done all the extensions. I was waiting for her to finish talking so I could go. I could feel the rabbits stiffening up inside the bag—I could smell them. “What’s your name?” she asked me finally, and I said Billy. “And do you go to school, Billy?” I looked at her and said you have to. Her eyes went all crinkly and happy again. “And is it a special school, just for special children?” I couldn’t work her out. Maybe she didn’t understand about school. I said not really, then my mouth blurted out, “You got hair like a fox.” She laughed like someone in a movie. “Good heavens,” she said. “You are a character, aren’t you?” A man in a red dressing gown came out onto the veranda and the lady said, “Look, darling, some local color.” “Love the hat,” the man said to me. I waited for them to tell me their names, but the man just complained that it was bloody freezing, and thank Christ they’d got the central heating in. The lady said yes, the whole place was shaping up well, then she looked out down the track and said, “The only problem is there’s no bloody view of the lake.” Then she said, “Billy, show Roger your bunnies, darling,” and I pulled one out and Roger said, “Good God.” They both laughed and laughed, and Roger said, “Well, it looks like the light’s on but there’s no one home.” Which was wrong. They were both home and they’d turned the lights off by then. When I walked down the track past the sharp turn and through the cutting, my boots cracked on the black ice. You’ve got to be careful you don’t go for a sixer on that. People say it’s invisible but it’s not really—you just have to get down real close to see where the water froze then melted a bit, then froze again, all through the night, till it’s like a piece of glass from an old bottle. Dad had had his shower by the time I got home. The rabbits were harder to skin because so much time had passed. The skins ripped off with the sound of one of those Band-Aids they put on your knees in the school sickroom. “Get them off,” my dad said when I came home with the Band-Aids on the time someone tripped me at school and I banged my knees on the concrete. Dad was watching me, so I pulled both of them off fast and my knees bled again. “Call that first aid? That’s bloody atrocious,” my dad said. “Get some air onto them.” I looked at my knees. They felt like the hinges inside had got stiff and rusty, like the oil in them had leaked out. Every day for the next few weeks, people drove up the hill to fix things in the lady’s house. You could hear banging and machines, and then a pointy bit of new roof pushed up over the trees. The lady’s friends, the ones who thought she was quite mad, came up a lot at first but then it got colder and they stopped. The lake froze over at the edges. One day I crept up and saw the lady on a new veranda, which was covered in pink paint, standing with her arms folded, just staring out at the trees. She didn’t look so happy now, with everything half finished and mud instead of a garden. There were big piles of rocks around, like she was waiting for someone to move them, and I saw a duck standing still as anything under a tree. I went closer and she saw me. “Well, Billy!” she called, and I went over and saw that the duck was a pretend one. “Look at all these bloody trees,” she said, sighing. “I’m sick of the sight of them.” She had the overalls on again but they didn’t look so new anymore. “What are those trees, anyway, Billy?” she said, and I said that they were gum trees, and she laughed and said she might have guessed that would be my answer, even though I hadn’t finished talking and was only sorting out what I was going to say next. I said there was going to be another cold snap that night and more hard weather. And she asked how did I know and I started explaining but she wasn’t really listening—she was still looking down the state-forest gully toward the lake, turning her head like the ladies in the shop when they’re buying dresses and looking at themselves in the mirror, deciding. Three weeks later I was up in the trees, just listening to them and looking for good spots for snares, when I found the first sick one. When I touched its leaves I knew it was dying. It was a big old tree and it used to have a big voice but now it was just breathing out. And it was bleeding. All around the trunk somebody had cut a circle, and sap was dripping out, which is the tree’s blood, my dad says. The person had used a little saw, then a hatchet, and I could see that whoever it was didn’t know how to use the saw properly and had scratched all up and down around the cut. There was nothing I could do for that tree. I wanted to kill it properly so that it wouldn’t just stand there looking at me, trying its hardest to stay alive. The next week I found another tree that was the same and then it just kept on happening: seven of the biggest trees got cut. When I looked real hard I flew up in the air again and saw them from the top and the dying ones made a kind of line down to the lake all the way from the lady’s house on the hill to the shore. Then I came back down onto the ground, and I saw how it was. “You’ve done it again, Billy,” Mr. Bailey said when I came by. “I don’t know what I’d do without you. Two big fat ones today.” I got my money and walked up the hill toward the lady’s house and I saw her through the trees, planting something in the garden. Dad said she kept the whole nursery in business. This time I got quite close to her and the pretend duck before she saw me, and she jumped backward. “Jesus, kid, just give it a break, will you?” she said, all shaky. She had a scarf that had slipped a bit off her hair and you could see where the red color stopped and the hair underneath was dark brown and silver, which was funny because sometimes it’s exactly the same on a fox’s tail, striped like that. “God, this place,” she said like a hiss, and threw down her trowel. “Isn’t the collective cold shoulder enough without you creeping around like . . .” Then she stopped and said, “Forget it, forget it.” I saw that she had a special little cushion for kneeling on and I was looking at that cushion when she said in a different voice, “Where did you get that box, Billy?” I said, “Out of the shed.” She laughed. I looked down at the box with the picture of the apple on it. “Out of your shed? That’s a finger-joint Colonial box, Billy. Do you know how much some of them are worth?” Her voice was all excited. “What about selling it to me?” she said. I said that it was my rabbit box and she asked did I have any others in the shed. I said I would have a look. She was a loony. My dad sometimes split up the old boxes for the chip furnace. He kept nails and bolts in them. “I know where there’ll be a lot,” I said. “At the Franklin garage sale.” Her eyes looked a little bit like Mr. Bailey’s dogs’ eyes inside the netting. “When is it?” she asked. “On Sunday. They got lots of stuff.” “Like what?” she asked, and then said a whole list of things—fire pokers? ironwork? cupboards?—and I just kept nodding. “Lots of that kind of thing,” I said. “Lots of these little boxes with writing and maps of Australia and animals like emus.” She folded her arms and looked at me harder. “Boxes with emus and kangaroos on them? With joints like this one?” “Yep,” I said. “But you got to get there real early in the morning. Like six-thirty or something. ’Cause other people come up from the city.” She asked me where Franklin’s was, and I told her. “I can get there earlier than the dealers,” she said, looking down the hill at the trees all secretly dying in a row to the lake. On Saturday I set a snare just inside a little tunnel of grass by the lake. Dad says that it’s bad to kill something without a good reason but I knew the rabbit wouldn’t mind. The trees were very quiet now. It was going to be a black frost. When the moon came up there was a yellow ring around it like around a Tilley lamp when you take it out on a frosty night. I couldn’t hardly get to sleep with thinking. I thought of her going out there with her new saw from the hardware shop in the night, cutting open the trees’ skin while the rabbits nosed around with their soft whiskery mouths and Mr. Bailey’s dogs cried and choked on their chains over and over. When I got up it was still dark, as dark as the steel on the monkey bars at school, cold metal that hurts your chest. I found a still, stiff rabbit in the trap and I felt sorry for it. I knew she would, too. Because in the lady’s head you can feel sorry and worried for rabbits but not for trees. The crystals had grown in the night and now the black ice was smooth as glass all around that sharp turn. I was careful with the rabbit, as careful as when I set a snare. It looked like it was alive all right, sitting up there by itself in the middle of the track. I got back into bed when I was finished. I felt my mum’s gloves. My dad knew I’d got up early when he came to wake me up again. I don’t know how. “You’d better go out and check your traps,” he said as he split the kindling. Up the road Farrelly’s tractor was pulling her car out of the ditch. It had crumpled into one of the big gums, and leaves and sticks had been shaken all over it. Mr. Farrelly said that the ambulance blokes themselves had nearly skidded on the bloody ice, trying to get in to help. “What’s a sheila like her doing getting up in the bloody dark on a Sunday morning, anyway?” Mr. Farrelly said as he put the hooks on. “Bloody loonies.” Under her front wheel I saw white fur, turned inside out like a glove, like my hat. I went down through the trees, touching the sick ones. On the way I stepped in a big patch of nettles. No use crying if you weren’t looking out for yourself, my dad says. I looked around and found some dock and rubbed it on and it stopped hurting like magic. For everything poisonous there’s something else nearby to cure it, if you just look around. My dad says that, too. I made a little fire and smoked my traps. Five more weeks and I can get a mountain bike. 
Kansas The girls left early, the two-year-old being driven to Montessori by her seventeen-year-old cousin. Three of their four parents lay in bed hungover; the fourth had risen unsteadily to fix breakfast, nauseated by her new pregnancy. Standing dazed at the stove, Anna had felt grateful to her niece, Kay-Kay, for her morning cheer, her willingness to dress little Cherry Sue, settle her in at the table, wash her face and hands—one of them bound in a bright-green cast—and then carry her off to school. Cherry Sue had been singing about babies, waving her bandaged fist like a maraca. She sang about everything these days, gesturing wildly, as if her life were a musical. “Don’t forget her plug,” Anna told Kay-Kay, meaning the pacifier. “My plug, my plug,” Cherry Sue chorused. Anna was in despair about her second pregnancy, and furious with her husband, Ian, for having announced it to everyone. Now she had no choice. In her daughter’s songs the new baby already had a name—’No White or Toto—and everyone at Montessori had congratulated Anna. She was still exhausted from having Cherry Sue, who had only this month finally been weaned—by force. Just when Anna had thought she might actually repossess her body, here she was a hostage again. In more ways than one. Having another child with Ian meant that she was further delayed in leaving him. If it weren’t for Cherry Sue, she and her husband would have gone their separate ways years ago, but now their fates seemed impossibly knotted. He refused to use condoms, and he failed to withdraw because he wanted her pregnant; the baby was a weapon that he could plant like a bomb. Cherry Sue loved him, and so would the new child; children didn’t know any better. He was like the Devil, Anna thought: somebody who kept his deceits hidden until it was too late, until you were already implicated in them. “Bye, Aunt Anna,” Kay-Kay said, with Cherry Sue hoisted on her hip, riding her cousin like a horse. Anna sniffed sentimentally. The girls were the only two people in the house who got along a hundred per cent of the time. Often mistaken for sisters (even, alarmingly, for mother and daughter), they were both fair and freckled, light-eyed, and plump in a healthy way. “Bye-bye, Mama,” Cherry Sue sang out. “Don’t cry, Mama.” “Don’t cry,” Kay-Kay joined in, smiling brightly. Four years ago, her adolescence had descended on the household like a lit match in a powder keg. Now the disaster had passed. Gone were the frightening clothes, the angry music, the Sharpie-marker makeup. Restored was the pretty child who bathed every day and made conversation with her family. “Goodbye,” Anna said, sighing and waving at the girls. It was a sunny day in Wichita, the birds were pouring their hearts out in trees just beginning to bud, and Anna fell asleep in the back-yard hammock, waking later with a sunburn, the skin on the backs of her thighs imprinted with hemp netting like a rump roast. The family cell-phone plan had seven subscribers, their numbers each one digit apart. Kay-Kay’s was the easiest to remember, 246-2460, and she was the one most frequently called. Her father, Henry, often forgot to turn on his phone or to charge it; he left it places—restaurants or jacket pockets. (Cherry Sue carried around one of his phones that had gone through the wash.) Henry was the oldest parent in the house, fifty-eight, a psychiatrist, a mild man who let life happen to him, let the people he loved talk him into things—like cell phones or children or trampolines. This was his third marriage, and his wife, Emily, Anna’s sister, was a generation younger than he. He kept marrying women in their twenties, having a daughter with them, then divorcing. Probably this would be his last marriage and daughter; he’d stayed in this one the longest, seeing Kay-Kay into puberty and beyond. The other girls he’d left when they were still in grade school, two half sisters whom Kay-Kay barely knew. One had married a cop. The other was a lesbian whose lover had been a patient of her father’s. Wichita was just that size, big enough for lesbians and psychoanalysis, small enough for impractical, coincidental cross-pollination. Anna and Emily’s mother—known to everyone in the family as Nana—remembered to carry her cell phone with her, but she often mistook it for other objects: the TV remote, a radio, her glasses case. Nana lived across town in a condo that she left only on Tuesdays, when she made her “rounds”: hairdresser, physician, bridge club, grocery. Occasionally, Kay-Kay stayed over at her grandmother’s. That had been one of her dodges, during the time of trouble—saying that she was with Nana when she was simply at large. She had also thrown parties at Nana’s condo, Tuesday-afternoon blowouts, where she shared with her friends the old woman’s pharmaceuticals and liquor. Some late nights she had sneaked off with Nana’s car. For Christmas this year, however, Kay-Kay had embroidered a set of pillowcases for her grandmother, with bluebells and daisies, sheep and a shepherdess, and “I Love Nana” in rose-colored thread. The rest of the family was still taking in this revised self, this hellion turned hausfrau. Emily and Anna had programmed into their cell phones the identical ring-tone for Kay-Kay’s calls, an assaulting electronic jangle that ended on a sour interrogative. Recently they had discussed changing it, since it no longer seemed to suit Kay-Kay. She had become someone more dulcet, they said. They had yet to settle on a new Kay-Kay ringtone, though they were reminded of the need every time the girl called, setting off that noise that never failed to startle. Ian’s phone had a lock on its functions. Because he violated others’ privacy, he assumed that they would violate his. He had his phone in his possession at all hours, clasped in his palm like a gun. It was set to vibrate so that he alone would know when he’d been summoned. When Kay-Kay had stolen his cocaine stash, Ian had been frustratingly unable to report the theft to anyone but his wife. In debt himself—to Anna and her family, to his boss, to all his friends—he’d felt especially outraged. He was owed, by somebody: an apology, a sum of money, carte blanche. The seventh phone belonged to Kay-Kay’s ex-boyfriend Wesley. For two years Wesley had lived in the house, eighteen when he moved in, yet not in any way an adult; Kay-Kay, only fifteen back then, had seemed more mature. Wesley’s parents were divorced, living in different states; he had no real home of his own, no address or phone number. Including him on the family plan cost an extra $9.99 a month: nothing, really. Henry paid the bills without giving them much thought. He was generous by nature. And, as a therapist, he made a lot of money, his life financed by other people’s troubles. Why shouldn’t he contribute to the welfare of his daughter’s boyfriend? When Wesley had needed a root canal, it was Emily who made the appointment. The family had coached him on his A.C.T.s, and he still stopped by to consult about perplexing pieces of the grownup world—student loans or car insurance. He was a working boy who had loved Kay-Kay dearly, and who, when he lived in the house, had kindly tolerated her teasing, about her status as a minor and his as a statutory rapist. Now he had a new girlfriend, Lucy, who was exactly—exactly—like the Kay-Kay they’d known three years ago. She even sounded like the old Kay-Kay whenever she happened to answer Wesley’s phone—sullen, stoned, suicidal. For just a second, you could be fooled, suddenly jerked back into the nightmare. Midmorning, Emily rolled out of bed. In the kitchen she found the usual mess: Anna’s sloppy breakfast makings, eggshells, milk left out to spoil, as well as the residue of the previous night’s drinking—empty bottles and glasses, a crusty bowl of salsa, the tart odor of pickle juice, desiccated cheese rinds. Emily muttered as she ran hot water. She had been forever in this role: a mother first to her little sister, through their childhood and beyond, then to her husband, and then, of course, to Kay-Kay. Now, since Ian had declared bankruptcy and he, Anna, and Cherry Sue had moved in, she was a mother to her brother-in-law and her niece as well. And then there was Nana, who seemed more and more in need of mothering herself—unpleasant mothering, of the variety that involved wheedling and deception, and that would soon include feeding and diapering. Responsibility was plaguing. Sometimes, to fight it, Emily was purposely irresponsible—she drank too much. She enjoyed drinking, the bright pup of the wine bottle relinquishing its cork, the gentle bell of stemware leaving the rack, the silly conversation over snacks and music, her brother-in-law showing his most tolerable self in service to the party, Henry just so happy to see everybody get along. Emily had turned forty a week before. She hadn’t thought she’d mind it, but evidently she did. She drank cold water, then hot coffee. Some days, there was nothing but fluid. Kay-Kay had left her school binder behind in a pool of syrup on the kitchen table. Emily pried it off and carried it upstairs to her daughter’s bedroom, where she stood at the door. For years she’d snooped in Kay-Kay’s life, read her diary, slit open the seams of her coat, turned over the dresser drawers, shoved a hand between the mattress and the box spring. She didn’t want to do those things anymore. Suspicion was soul-killing. She told herself that Kay-Kay deserved her trust. She tossed the binder onto the bed and shut the door. Sometimes at noon Kay-Kay came home from school. For a while, last fall, as she began her climb out of rage and wretchedness, she had brought friends back with her for lunch. She’d been proud of her quirky home life then, proud of her rambling old house with its many airy rooms, a place where you might come across her Aunt Anna sunbathing nude on the porch, or her father brandishing a civilized glass of Merlot at midday. “For my heart,” he would say. “Purely medicinal.” At noon, her boyfriend, Wesley, would be rising, zipping himself into his coveralls, ready for his shift at the lube pit; cute Cherry Sue would be humming in her high chair, Emily serving up lasagna or soup. It was a capacious kitchen, with a dining table made from an ancient farmhouse door, eight expectant chairs. Flowers in vases, fruit in bowls, cursing in the conversation. But these days Kay-Kay mostly came home alone. She was getting ready to leave: high school, her friends, this house. Her future, Emily hoped, held college, Europe, Africa; what else had they been prepping—as well as preserving—her for but departure? Once upon a time, Emily had believed that she would do these things herself: attend Harvard, adopt orphans, observe the world from the basket of a hot-air balloon. But then she’d fallen in love with Henry—scandalously her elder, and married, to boot—and then with this funky old house, and then her daughter had been born. . . . Today, Kay-Kay didn’t come home for lunch. Indulging his hangover, Henry rose from bed only long enough to cancel his appointments and lumber back. Fridays were half days anyway. Emily doubted that he’d even opened his eyes between bed and phone. He was a bear, gruff, kind, loyal to a fault. He had grown soft in their nineteen years together; she was his last wife, he always said, last and best. He’d had a starter wife for practice, and another for refining his skills. Now he performed with forbearance, faith, and patience, permitting Emily to be the hotheaded one while he stood by. “Admit it!” Emily had accused him crazily on her fortieth birthday. “I’m the oldest woman you’ve ever slept with! Old women are witches! No one even notices them, let alone finds them attractive. You don’t find old women attractive, admit it!” “Not yet,” he’d confessed mildly. Still woozy now, Emily decided to join him in bed, nudging herself against his furry chest. They lay together into the afternoon, bound in a cocoon of indolence: it was spring again, and they had arrived here with their girl, after a long, treacherous journey, and it seemed that only now, just now, were they safely out of the woods. Henry slept, wheezing, and Emily lay in his arms, and it wasn’t until three o’clock, when Anna borrowed Emily’s car to pick up Cherry Sue, that anyone realized that something was wrong. “You phoned this morning,” Miss Juliet said, proving it by producing the form with the time, Anna’s name, and the fact that Cherry Sue wouldn’t be coming to school today. All the Misses at Montessori had the same voice, blameless and assured. If Cherry Sue wasn’t there it wasn’t their fault. Kay-Kay’s cell phone sent all calls immediately to voice mail. Her greeting was a leftover from the year before. “Kay-Kay says shut up and fuck off!” a boy yelled, Sid Vicious-ly. It wasn’t even Wesley but a stranger, with Kay-Kay’s slurred laughter in the background. The next number Anna hit was her husband’s. Like Kay-Kay, Ian was sending callers to voice mail. Shaking, Anna phoned her sister, and Emily (who always answered) advised driving to East High. “School’s not out yet. Maybe she took Cherry Sue with?” “Maybe.” “Show-and-tell?” “Sure.” At the house, Emily closed her eyes, thrown instantly back into the grim fright of the year before, and the year before that, and the year before that: her daughter, a force of nature, out wreaking havoc. “God damn it, Henry!” He sat up blurrily, his face imprinted with his own palm, as if he’d been slapped. She clapped the phone shut and threw it at him, fear leading directly to rage, and her husband, right there, ready to receive it. School was letting out when Anna arrived. The wind had picked up, and dirt filled the air, trash flattened into the chain link. She drove against the current of muscle cars and trucks surging around her, unnerved by the exuberance with which the teen-agers handled their vehicles, their lives. They yelled and honked and screeched their tires, lighting cigarettes and popping up through sunroofs and out back windows, some riding on hoods, dust and exhaust whirling as they revved their engines. Anna scanned desperately for her niece’s gold Celica, still willing to forgive Kay-Kay if she found her there. Plenty of students came to school with their babies, or with their big embarrassing bellies held before them like basketballs. Anna guessed that Kay-Kay wasn’t beyond vying for some attention, a different kind of attention than she’d been accustomed to getting these past few years, when she’d been warned and suspended and flunked and arrested and handed poor marks not only in performance and attendance but in attitude and appearance as well—in personality, it seemed. Often, Anna had defended her niece, even envied her—as if on behalf of her own former self, both patriotic and nostalgic for a lost homeland. Now she searched the thinning trickle of cars and pedestrians with growing pessimism. “They’re not here,” she told Emily on the phone, driving home. “Where’s Ian?” Emily demanded. “I don’t know.” Anna had no idea what Ian did with himself; borrowing her sister’s car had become a daily necessity. “We ought to find Ian.” He had been helpful on a few occasions. He’d located tolerable community service for Kay-Kay after her possession conviction. He’d stayed up all night talking to the speedy girl when the other adults were utterly worn out. Once, when she’d declared that she would be fine with being a prostitute, he took her to the seedy side of Wichita, to some strip clubs he knew, just to give her a taste. “You call him,” Anna said. “He won’t answer me.” Sure enough, Ian took Emily’s call. The noise at his end of the line suggested a submarine. “Where are you?” she asked. “Work,” he said flatly. “What do you want?” “I wonder if you’ve seen Kay-Kay. She took Cherry Sue this morning, but they didn’t go to school.” On his end she could hear a door close, an echoing clatter. Racquetball court, she guessed. He practically lived at the club, hanging out in the seating area of the juice bar, disguising himself as a healthy body-builder type when in fact he made most of his income dealing drugs in the parking lot and the men’s locker room. His uniform was a warmup suit. A sport bottle full of vodka. Of particular appeal was the fact that he had an excuse to exit his in-laws’ house every morning, leaving his killjoy wife and her stuck-up family to themselves. Or at least that’s what Emily thought he thought. She had no idea what really went on in her brother-in-law’s head. He’d been hanging around in her life since he was a bratty neighbor boy ten years her junior. Often, she imagined the two words he’d most like to say to her: Whatever, bitch. Now she couldn’t tell if his lack of reaction meant that he was thinking or merely stunned or already concocting a story. His silence was hermetic, and she was tempted to hang up. But Kay-Kay sometimes confided in Ian—he had the tactical advantage of being the other acknowledged delinquent in the house. Drunk, he could be endearing. The night before, for example, he’d done hilarious imitations of all four principals in “The Wizard of Oz” as if they’d been pulled over for driving under the influence. Sober, however, he defaulted to paranoia. “I know what you’re thinking,” he said. “No, you don’t,” she assured him. Ian said, “Let me get back with you,” and hung up. “ ‘Get back’ with me?” Emily said to Anna, who was coming through the mudroom door. “He said he’ll get back with me.” “He’s an asshole,” Anna said for at least the hundredth time. Then she turned her pleading, tear-streaked face to her big sister. “Where are they?” Meanwhile, Henry had pulled himself out of bed to perform his ritual: driving around. He had done this whenever Kay-Kay or any of the pets had disappeared. It never paid off, but it seemed somehow necessary, a biological imperative. He was confirming that the obvious explanation didn’t prevail: the lost dog wasn’t chasing tail at the park or lying like a rug in the road; the girls weren’t parked down at the Dairy Queen or visiting any of Kay-Kay’s known acquaintances. The last time she’d run away, she’d taken a bus to Burning Man; the time before that, she’d hitchhiked to Ohio. But she’d never before had her own getaway vehicle. It was Henry who had insisted on buying Kay-Kay a car, even though Emily was opposed. They’d argued for weeks—the girl had totalled two of the family cars in a single year!—and later Emily had grudgingly acknowledged that he had been right: Kay-Kay had got a job to pay for gas, had not had one ticket or wreck, and often volunteered for trips to the grocery store or to drop off Cherry Sue. But now look what had happened. Wait around long enough, Emily thought, and you can win any argument. Henry slapped at his jacket pocket before he left, to show her that he had remembered his phone. “Pointless,” Emily said, of his errand. “Complete waste of time.” Anna began to cry again. “I’m being punished!” she said to Emily. “For what?” “Bellyaching about Cherry Sue! Being pissy about being pregnant!” “Oh, please, Anna. You’re not being punished.” “Why can’t I learn to keep my big mouth shut? Just count my fucking blessings?” Anna threw herself into a kitchen chair. “Stop it, stop it. You’re hungry.” Emily was already pulling open the cupboard doors. “You need to eat.” That evening, the usual emergency-vehicle sirens seemed especially frequent and jarringly loud; the wind blew so hard that it whistled through all the old house’s cracks. Tornado season was upon them again; possibly they’d end up in the basement tonight. Their three cell phones lay on the scarred kitchen table while Emily microwaved leftovers for Henry and Anna. She herself had taken a Valium. It was Anna who noticed the wall calendar. “Today is Friday the thirteenth!” she wailed. “Kay-Kay doesn’t know that,” Emily said. “She loses track of what month it is, let alone the date.” “I probably should have seen my patients today,” Henry said reflectively, a napkin tucked like a bib into his collar. “Some of them are surely superstitious.” He had stopped at the police station while he was driving around and ascertained that there’d been no accidents involving a gold Celica, no ambulance summons for a teen-ager and a toddler. His oldest daughter’s husband, Buzz, was a cop; he’d promised to keep an eye out. “The desk sergeant asked if I wanted to report a kidnapping,” Henry told Emily and Anna. “I mean, really.” He rocked his head in disbelief; he’d never grown accustomed to thinking of Kay-Kay as a criminal, even when she’d been arrested and charged, found guilty and made to pay—this despite the fact that he made his living hearing how people were routinely failed by their loved ones. At the office, he used the when-did-you-stop-beating-your-wife approach, asking not if but how often his patients fell short. With his daughter, however, he was as blustering and dumbfounded as a sitcom stereotype, a dad handicapped by blind love. Tonight, Henry kept positing the same fuzzy scenario. “She’s doing something for somebody,” he said. “Somebody in crisis, who called her on her way to school. And then it was more complicated than she thought—it snowballed.” “If somebody lured Kay-Kay with a phone call,” Emily said, “it wasn’t about helping someone.” “But why take Cherry Sue?” Anna asked. “Why run away with a two-year-old? I’m always trying to run away from her.” “Kay-Kay would never let anything happen to Cherry Sue,” Henry assured his sister-in-law. “Not on purpose,” Emily amended. Henry gave his wife the familiar disappointed look. “Please, Em,” he said, not wanting to believe her heartless. “I didn’t mean what I said about running away from Cherry Sue,” Anna said pleadingly. “She’s a lot of work, but she’s good company. Much better company than her dad.” Nobody disagreed with her. The house phone rang, and Emily answered, then held it up so that they could all listen to the high-school-attendance-office recording letting them know that their “son or daughter missed one or more classes today.” “Oh, fuck you,” they chimed in unison while the voice went on in its flat scolding way about what steps should be taken next. They’d heard it many, many times before. Kay-Kay’s trouble, however often it had involved officials—the rule-makers and the rule-enforcers—had never been solved by them. The mudroom door slammed open but yielded only Wesley, the ex. “Find her?” he asked. He wore his dirty garage coveralls with his name on the pocket, long-sleeved because his boss couldn’t abide tattoos. “I drove by Nana’s, just to see if her car was there, but it wasn’t . . .” Wesley trailed off. “It smells good in here.” Emily offered him food, but he declined, gesturing toward the driveway, where the new girlfriend, Lucy, was smoking a cigarette. “I’ll stop by the hookah bar,” he volunteered. “And maybe Java the Hut. I’ve got my cell.” “Good man,” Henry said. “Thanks, Wes,” Emily said, smiling wanly at him. She’d always thought he was too nice for the likes of Kay-Kay, who, Emily believed, required a little wickedness. “WHERE R U??” Anna text-messaged Ian at midnight. It embarrassed her not to know where her husband was, not to know for sure that he wasn’t somehow involved in the girls’ disappearance. Her mother had labelled him a hoodlum years ago; as a teen-ager, he’d stolen dogs in order to claim the rewards. Anna herself had collected the cash, since she looked more like a savior than Ian. Another time, he’d shown her how easy it was to break into homes, summoning a locksmith and waltzing right into the neighbors’ house. Ian had handed down to Kay-Kay his black shirt with a neon-yellow “SECURITY” emblazoned on the back. In it, you could go anywhere, do anything. “Looking for girls,” he texted back. Anna knew that this was true—but which girls? She glanced up to find her big sister glaring at her, giving her an order. “You should sleep.” Pregnancy was insistent that way. This new baby, no bigger than a plum, was overruling her ability to stay alert on behalf of her other baby. She left her phone with Emily, knowing that its ring might not rouse her. Emily sent Henry to bed, too. He kissed her cheek, leaving her on the couch, where, every hour, she dialled Kay-Kay’s number. At four-thirty, her daughter finally responded. A couple of lines of text appeared: “We r fine Dont worry! Luv u.” The message proved that Kay-Kay was in possession of her phone, her wits, and her cousin. Nevertheless, Emily began to cry, and, of course, this was when Ian arrived home, sneaking in like a thief. “What?” he said, alarmed. “She called,” Emily said. “They’re fine, she says.” He smelled of a bar. She wanted to kill him—for being who he was and not someone else, for catching her in tears. He had never liked her, not even when he was a child. Always he’d preferred Anna; always he’d chosen Anna over Emily. Now he was beholden to Emily, her unhappy house guest. He blinked his heavy-lidded eyes. “A couple of people have seen her today,” he said, dropping into the easy chair. “Really?” “They think so. Cherry Sue is hard to miss, specially with that cast on her arm. They had breakfast at the I-Hop by Nana’s, then around noon they were out busking with a guitar in Old Town.” “Where have you been?” “Everywhere.” “Buzz knows to look for her.” “Buzz?” “Henry’s son-in-law, the cop.” Ian scowled now; Emily thought she could read his mind: What good was a cop to them? Hadn’t Ian himself supplied the most useful information yet? “I talked to her earlier,” he said, rising. “What?” “She said that we really upset her last night. She’s feeling disappointed in all of us, you and me and Anna and Henry, all of us. She said she—” “She called you?” His mouth snapped shut, and Emily knew that he wouldn’t open it again. Whatever, bitch. Fuming, she listened as he made his way up the stairs and down the hall to the room that he and Anna shared. On Saturday, the sky was murky, churning with a wind that seemed to want to tear the roof from the house. Henry called Buzz to confirm that nothing bad had happened overnight on the police radio band. Emily made herself turn Kay-Kay’s room upside down, page through her journal, sniff at her jewelry box, open her closet and drawers and CD cases. But Emily knew that if Kay-Kay wanted to hide something these days it would be in her car, in the trunk she could lock. “What else did she say to Ian?” Emily finally asked Anna. Pride had prevented her from asking him. Pride, and the fear that he would tell her that it was none of her fucking business. Like a teen-ager, he had the capacity to shame you—even when you knew he was in the wrong. “She said that we were terrible role models.” Anna was making bread, keeping busy. She leaked a tear or two into the dough, continuing to knead. “Terrible role models?” Emily and Henry said together. Henry was making a “Missing” poster, with photographs—Cherry Sue in nothing but a diaper, Kay-Kay still sporting braces. He’d had to find a photo where her hair was its natural color, not the coal-black she’d dyed it until last Christmas. “That’s what Ian said she said.” Anna wasn’t sure that she believed her husband. It would be just like him to try to take advantage of the situation to punish his wife and her family. “I was telling stories about my patients,” Henry said, chastened. “About the stalker, and a few of my chem-deps—” “You never said any names,” Anna assured him. “You’re always really careful to protect privacy.” “Still, I shouldn’t have been talking about them.” “I’m sure that wasn’t it.” Emily sat across from Henry at the table, staring into her coffee as she tried to reconstruct the evening; she was prepared to take responsibility. But for what, exactly? For having been too drunk to remember, she supposed. She could recall Ian making them all laugh: the cop pulling over the drunks on the Yellow Brick Road, the Lion, the Scarecrow, the Tin Man, even that wacky dwarf, representative of the Lollipop Guild. And round-heeled, blasted Judy Garland, in her earnest full-throated way, inviting the officer for a romp in the poppy field. It had seemed like a good evening, Kay-Kay joining them for dinner, sticking around as the hour grew late, rocking Cherry Sue on her hip, helping Anna fix snacks, changing the CD when Ian complained about Henry’s music. Emily had the impression that they had been trying to please the teen-ager, all four of the adults staging an impromptu production called “Life Is Worth Living,” right here at this very table. What they had learned about Kay-Kay, during the past few years, was that she truly could not see the point, that she did not care whether she lived or died. And, if she did not care, what was to stop her from following whatever impulse seized her? Sleep with a stranger? Why not? Inject an unknown drug? O.K. Hitchhike, wander the streets, invite outlaws into her life and hallucinations into her head—all of it without regard for what her family kept calling “the consequences,” a future with her in it. They all agreed that it was Cherry Sue who’d saved her, Cherry Sue who’d been able to light what otherwise seemed a dark void—by loving Kay-Kay as passionately as she did, by assigning Kay-Kay special status as queen of her heart. Her name had been the second one Cherry Sue said, right after Mama; when she finally learned to walk, it was Kay-Kay’s arms she aimed for and fell into. “What do you think?” Henry asked now, holding up his poster. He put himself into motion without waiting for an answer. He would photocopy it, and then drive around posting it: in Old Town, on Douglas, by East and the other high schools, at Wal-Marts and gas stations and bars and grocery stores and truck stops and at both of the big malls. “I’ll have my cell,” he assured Emily, patting his pocket. “Absolutely futile,” Emily told Anna when he was gone. They watched through the window as branches flailed in the wind above the trampoline, Ian’s sole contribution to the household. He had brought it home the same way he did all his dubious belongings, with the implicit instruction that no one ask questions. The trampoline vibrated, like a living thing. When it was first set up, Cherry Sue and Kay-Kay had climbed right on and begun to bounce together, holding hands. They danced on it to Kay-Kay’s boom-box music; they loped around its rubber surface singing about the Muffin Man; they lay upon it in the dark, after it had absorbed the sun all day, watching as the stars popped on. Emily hadn’t wanted to accept the trampoline, not because it came from Ian but because she had foreseen the broken limb or crushed skull. Somebody would be made to pay, she knew. Some bone would have to be offered up. In the end, the sacrifice was Cherry Sue’s, her little left wrist. Off to the E.R. they’d raced, the two-year-old sobbing into Kay-Kay’s neck while Emily weaved through traffic, Anna riding shotgun, crying uselessly. Emily had met her daughter’s eyes in the rearview mirror, a complicit glance between them, the levelheaded ones. Emily had liked that moment. Now, with her sister flour-dusted and sad before her, Emily recalled another piece of Thursday evening’s conversation. This had concerned their childhood. When they were young, and shared a bedroom, it had been Emily’s habit to lie on the bunk above Anna and cross-examine her about her imaginary friend. Every night, the same conversation: “Tell me what she looks like,” Emily would insist. “No.” “What’s she doing right now?” “I’m not telling.” Night after night Emily wheedled, by turns threatening and pleading. She was a bully and she had to win. Finally, she’d pledged, “If you tell me her name, I’ll name my first child after her.” This promise she’d made at age nine. Down below, a long silence came from her four-year-old sister. And then Anna had said, “Her name is Kay-Kay.” “That’s why you named me Kay-Kay?” Kay-Kay had asked, Thursday night. “You knew that already,” Emily said, tilting her empty wineglass once more into her mouth, not wanting to open a third bottle. “I did not.” “I didn’t, either,” Anna claimed. “I’ve told you both, a thousand times.” The thing about being Anna’s sister was that, by the time Emily made good on her end of the deal, Anna had forgotten it was owed—was totally nonplussed over the telephone when Emily called blissfully from the delivery room. But Anna had been a scornful teen-ager herself then, repulsed by her sister’s marriage to a man practically their father’s age. That had been a long time ago. Now Anna knew all about the tender sentiment attached to babies and their names. When she was pregnant herself, she’d agreed to the name that Ian chose; at that point, she had wanted him to stick around. “Cherry Sue,” he’d declared. “Just like my first Z car, may she R.I.P.” “I don’t even remember having an imaginary friend,” Anna said to Emily now, as if she, too, had been trying to reconstruct Thursday night. “Maybe I already knew that the imaginary ones worked out better than the real ones?” Ian entered the kitchen. “You got a problem with reality?” he said to Anna. On the table, one of the cells rang with Kay-Kay’s awful tone. It was Anna’s, a text message: “How much Ch Sue weigh?” “Why is she asking me this?” Anna cried. “What the fuck?” Ian said. Emily took only a moment to process the request. “She’s giving her Tylenol,” she deduced. “She wants to get the right dose.” “I don’t know how much Cherry Sue weighs!” Anna burst into tears. Ian said, “What could it be, like forty?” He was making fists, flexing his elbows as if hefting barbells. “Twenty-five,” Emily instructed. She remembered from the E.R., when the bone had been set. “Let me text her back.” “Thanp” was Kay-Kay’s reply. Saturday night was a repeat of Friday night, with the actors now sick of their roles, stuck in the production. Ian had not come home, and Anna’s new baby was urging her to bed. Henry had developed the dark circles beneath his eyes that indicated that a migraine was coming, and Emily was furious at the helpless way he looked out from their depths. “A hundred posters,” he’d said, accounting for his exhaustion. There was a fleet of pill bottles on his night table, the place where his age was most evident. “Go to bed,” she snapped. “I’ll stay here with the phones.” At 2 A.M., Wesley called. There was wind and static on his end. He was outside a party from which he had been banished, but he thought that Kay-Kay might be there. “Lucy needs to chill,” he explained, so he was going to drive her home, but he gave Emily the address. It took Emily two seconds to decide to call Ian instead of waking either of the others; as usual, he took the call, albeit unhappily. “Yeah?” he said. He, too, was standing outside a party. He smelled of bonfire when he picked Emily up ten minutes later. “This is a weird address,” he noted. “You sure she’d be here?” “No,” Emily said. The address, it turned out, was a house in a new subdivision, not yet finished, with a baby-blue Porta-Potty tilting in the front yard, stakes and PVC pipes strewn about, the only lights coming from within the giant structure itself. To Ian’s credit, he performed beautifully as party crasher. He nodded as they entered the massive front door, murmuring a few “How’s it going”s as they pushed through the crowded rooms, Emily following in his wake. The place was cavernous, echoing, warmed by body heat, smelling of sawdust. Men with stringed instruments played folk music in a corner. The people milling around, holding plastic cups and cigarettes, were older than Kay-Kay by a decade or more. Many wore cowboy hats; a yard-long sheet cake rested on a set of sawhorses. Ian said, “This isn’t a party, it’s a hoedown.” “I’m looking for Kay-Kay,” Emily said hopefully to the man tapping the keg in the kitchen. “Hey, yeah,” he said. “Where is that chica?” Everyone recognized the name and nodded, smiling fondly, but no one had seen her. Ian accepted a plastic cup of beer, then grimaced as he drank. “I was picturing teen-agers,” Emily confided to him. Some bit of Kansas miscreance, a meth lab maybe. “You were picturing a big-ass opium den of iniquity,” Ian scoffed. “I guess I was, too.” Emily canvassed the first floor, just to make sure, and then headed upstairs, carefully, since there was not yet a rail. Here were the future bedrooms, five of them, each white, and blank, vacant bathrooms, the smell of new carpet still in rolls. Out the windows, other hulking houses, dark like quiet ships. Was it just fatigue that made everything seem strange to her? she wondered. She dialled Wesley. “Where did you think she might be, exactly?” “I couldn’t get to the upstairs.” “I’m there. It’s totally empty.” “Huh. Hang on, Emily.” Wesley was talking to somebody on his end. “I’m at St. Francis,” he said apologetically. “Lucy may have O.D.’d.” “May have?” “She turned blue. Now she looks better—her mom says she’s hypoglycemic, so sometimes that happens—but we’re already here . . .” he trailed off, sighing. Once again at the hospital: he’d performed a similar duty on Kay-Kay’s behalf, not that long ago. (“If one is good,” Kay-Kay had explained, “why wouldn’t two be better?”) “I’m sorry,” Wesley said. “I thought Kay-Kay might have been staying at that place. She knows some of the guys working on it. I gotta go, Emily. We’re up.” “Good luck, Wes,” she said. Emily went back downstairs to find Ian accepting a second beer from the man in the kitchen. “Coors?” he asked Emily. “Cake?” “No, thanks. I was hoping somebody had seen my daughter.” “They’re not here,” Ian said, downing his beer in one wincing swallow. “Thanks for coming!” a few people called as they exited. In the car, Ian snorted. “Yee-haw.” Then he grabbed his thrumming phone. “I’ll drop you off,” he said, studying its screen. Anna, in her dream that night, birthed an apple. A green apple. The same green as Cherry Sue’s cast. In her last dream, she’d had a small black monkey, his chattering mouth full of teeth, his hair greasy. In another, she’d produced kittens, a litter of three, and one had died, just quit breathing right before her eyes. She wondered sometimes what her brother-in-law, the professional interpreter of dreams, would say about hers, what he would know about her if he heard what went on in her sleeping head. Tonight the tornado warning siren swooped into Anna’s dream but didn’t wake her; it was Emily who pulled her to her feet and led her down into the basement, where the three of them leaned against each other on the moldering couch, waiting for the all clear. Sarah, Henry’s oldest daughter and Buzz’s wife, arrived Sunday morning with the sun. Heavy, stoic Sarah with the hairdo, holding a hot casserole before her. Besides the oven mitts, she was dressed for church. Her greeting was a list of ingredients: egg, sausage, hash browns, cheese. “And cream-of-mushroom soup,” she finished. Sarah always wore a sorrowful expression in her father’s house, as if she saw all of its inhabitants headed in that handbasket toward Hell. At first, Emily had reciprocated, pitying Sarah back. Later, when Kay-Kay had gone wild, she simply refused to make eye contact. The sky was blue, the air still. Emily began thanking her stepdaughter perfunctorily. At this, Sarah gazed demurely out the kitchen window, saddened but not surprised at what had befallen this group of savages. Then her brow furrowed. Out there on the trampoline slept the two missing girls, plus someone else. You could see the blond heads tipped together, little Cherry Sue’s neon-green cast on top of the tarpaulin covering them. “Thank you, Jesus,” Sarah murmured, pointing. “There they are,” she said. “Ian said you were upset by us Thursday night.” “Why did he say that?” Emily glared at her brother-in-law, who glared back. Whatever, bitch. “You weren’t?” “I may have been.” Kay-Kay shrugged. She had the air of someone to whom blame could not be attached, nor shame or repentance, either. “It’s temporary,” she’d said of the rainbow tattoo on her shoulder, before Emily could ask. Cherry Sue had a matching one on her thigh. Ian said, “I thought you were on the run from the Man.” Kay-Kay scoffed. “That’s you, not me. Why weren’t you all worried about poor Nana?” The third person sleeping on the trampoline had been Anna and Emily’s mother, also missing these past two days. She, and her little dirty-white dog, unmissed by her children. This was unforgivable, according to Kay-Kay, though she was clearly also bemused. “I thought you’d been carjacked,” Henry confessed, wiping his eyes. “I thought you’d picked up hitchhikers and got stolen, a good deed gone bad.” He kept laying his hand on Kay-Kay’s shoulder, as if never to let her leave home again. Kay-Kay studied the “Missing” poster. “I’ll have to go take those down,” he said. Kay-Kay nodded. “I’ll help.” Why weren’t they angrier? Emily wondered. Why had the girls’ return inspired so little in her and Anna and Henry and Ian besides relief? What was wrong with them that this was their reaction—this sense of gratitude, as if Kay-Kay had performed a rescue rather than the reverse? Cherry Sue nuzzled at Anna’s neck, absolutely fine, a faint sunburn on the bridge of her nose and her cheeks as if from healthy recreation. “You never once dialled Nana’s cell,” Kay-Kay said. “We checked.” “I wasn’t thinking of her,” Emily admitted. “You O.K., Mom?” “Why wouldn’t I be?” Nana sat at the table with her dog in her lap, no worse for wear, unkempt in her usual way. She had enjoyed her trip with the girls. Medicine Lodge, a hundred miles southwest, was her home town. She hadn’t visited there in she didn’t know how long. “We stood in the back yard of the old farmhouse.” “That’s right, Nana. For our picture.” “That fellow with the cart full of cans took it for us.” “You gave him a dollar.” “And then Nipper ran off after a rabbit.” “That’s right.” Nana looked relieved, as always, to have her memory confirmed. She wore her standard floral muumuu; her hair hardly existed anymore, a few white tufts. Her fingers twitched in her pet’s fur, which was filled with twigs and burrs and mulberry fluff. She had not panicked when picked up by her granddaughter on Friday morning; for all she knew, it was a plan they’d made. “They’ve always had the best pie at the Toot Sweet,” she recalled. “And we slept in a motel.” Moe-tel. “I sleep with Kay-Kay,” Cherry Sue said, smiling slyly. “You drove to Medicine Lodge and checked into a motel?” Ian asked skeptically. “Nana wanted to visit the old homestead,” Kay-Kay said. “It’s pretty out there. Some places, you can’t even get phone reception.” Sarah had served everyone a glass of milk, though only Cherry Sue ever drank the stuff. As soon as she’d seen the girls and their grandmother, Sarah had phoned Buzz to say that she would be missing church today. Called to a higher need, she’d tucked a dish towel into her waistband and begun spooning out her eggy casserole while the family sat obediently. The blandness of the offering went with the blandness of the adventure being described. From the old woman and the baby they learned that there’d been burgers along with the pie, Tylenol for teething, television, some jumping on the beds, games of go fish, a walk around Nana’s old land and ruined house, the three of them holding hands, moving slowly, trailed by Nana’s little dog, trotting along leashless. Emily listened, marvelling, exhausted: the most dramatic things, it seemed, had been happening here at home, in their heads. They had woken this morning from an experience that was precisely like a nightmare—Technicolor catastrophes, figments of imagination, suspicion, now totally erased in the light of an ordinary day. There hadn’t even been storms in Medicine Lodge, the bad weather passing just north of there. “We should call Wesley,” she noted absently. He’d no doubt had a bad dream or two himself. “I texted him,” Kay-Kay said. “He’s still at St. Francis with the freak.” “Nipper’s a bad dog,” Cherry Sue reported, pulling out her pacifier. “You a bad dog,” she sang at the animal. “Nipper tends to run away,” Nana said, plucking at his nasty fur. “Just to scare us silly. Oh, we called and called, till we were blue in the face.” But then she wasn’t certain and turned uneasily to Kay-Kay. “Hours, Nana,” Kay-Kay assured her. Both Emily and Anna waited for the girl to make a meaningful ironic comment, to let them know that she, too, had run away for the thrill of scaring some people silly, of taking their concern out for one last whirl. But Kay-Kay went back to forking up the sausage-and-egg casserole, drinking milk. Apparently, she’d forsaken her decade-long vegetarianism. On the back of the hand holding the fork was a seven-leafed marijuana plant she’d carved into it in ninth grade, a faint, fading white. She’d removed the metal stud from her tongue and the ring from her lip, so silverware went in and out without clinking. If she wasn’t careful, Emily and Anna thought at the same time, she would run to fat, like Henry’s other daughters. She hadn’t gone anywhere alarming. She hadn’t done anything dangerous. Could they be disappointed? “Oh, hey, check out the picture,” Kay-Kay said, wiping her mouth and flipping open her phone. She found the image. Around the table went the cell phone, everyone squinting at the mini-picture of Nana, Kay-Kay, Cherry Sue, and Nipper. They stood beside a broken storm-cellar door, above them the bleached Kansas sky. Three big grins, and Nipper with his nose in the air, preparing to run. “I’m gonna get a print made for you, Nana,” Kay-Kay told her grandmother. She took back her phone and gazed into its tiny depths. “In black-and-white, don’t you think? Wouldn’t that be best?” 
How Was It To Be Dead? The exact status of my marriage to Sally Caldwell requires, I believe, some amplification. It is still a marriage that’s officially going on, yet by any accounting has become strange—in fact, the strangest I know, and within whose unusual circumstances I myself have acted very strangely. Seven months ago, in April of this millennial year, I took a journey down memory lane to an old cadets’ reunion at the brown stucco, pantile-roof campus of my former military school—Gulf Pines, on the Mississippi coast. Lonesome Pines, we all called it. The campus and its shabby buildings, like apparently everything else in that world, had devolved over time to become an all-white Christian Identity school, which had itself, by defaulting on its debts, been sold to a corporate entity—the ancient palms, wooden goalposts, dusty parade grounds, dormitories, and classroom installments soon to be cleared as a parking structure for the floating casino across Route 90. During this visit, I happened to hear from Dudley Phelps, who’s retired out of the laminated-door business up in Little Rock, that Wally Caldwell, once our Lonesome Pines classmate, but more significantly once my wife’s husband, until he got himself shell-shocked in Vietnam and wandered off seemingly forever, causing Sally to have him declared dead (no easy trick without a body or other evidence of death’s likelihood)—this Wally Caldwell was reported by people in the know to have appeared again. Alive. Upon the earth. And—I was sure when I heard it—eager to stir up emotional dust none of us had seen the likes of. Nobody knew much. We all stood around the breezy, hot parade ground in short-sleeve pastel shirts and chinos, talking committedly, chins tucked into our necks, the pale, wispy grass smelling of shrimp, ammonia, and diesel, trying to unearth good concrete memories—the deaf-school team we played in football that hilariously beat the shit out of us—anything that we could feel positive about and that could make adolescence seem to have been worthwhile, though agreeing darkly that we were all of us pretty hard cases when we arrived. (Actually, I was not a hard case at all.) We had a keg of beer somebody’d brought. The Gulf was just as the Atlantic is in summer: brownish, sluggish, a dingy aqueous apron stretching to nowhere—though warm as bathwater instead of dick-shrinkingly cold. We all solemnly stood and drank the warm beer, ate weenies in stale buns, and did our best not to feel dispirited and on-in-years. We chatted disapprovingly about how the Coast had changed, how the South had traded its tarnished soul for a more debased graven image of gambling loot, how the upcoming election would probably be won by the wrong dope. Surprisingly, many of my old classmates had gone to Nam like Wally and come back Democrats. And then, around 2 P.M., when the sun sat straight over our sweating heads like a dentist’s lamp and we’d all begun to laugh about what a shithole this place had really been, how we didn’t mind seeing it disappear, how we’d all cried ourselves to sleep in our metal bunks on so many breathless, mosquito-tortured nights on account of cruel loneliness and youth and deep hatred for the other cadets, we all, by no signal given, just began to stray back toward our rental cars, or across the highway to the casino for some stolen fun, or back to motels or Winnebagos or the airport in New Orleans or Mobile, or just back, as if we could go back far enough to where it would all be forgotten and gone forever, the way it already should’ve been. Why were we there? By the end, none of us could’ve said. How, though, do you contemplate such news as this possible Wally sighting? I had no personal memories of Cadet W. Caldwell, only pictures Sally kept (and kept hidden): color snapshots on the beach with their kids, in Saugatuck; a shirtless, dog-tagged Wally squinting into the summer sun like J.F.K., holding a copy of “Origin of Species” with a look of mock puzzlement on his young face; a few tuxedoed wedding photos from 1969, where Wally looked lumpy and wise and scared to death of what lay before him; a yearbook portrait from Illinois State, showing Walter “the Wall” Caldwell, Class of ’67, Plant Biology, where he was deemed (sadly, I felt) to be “Trustworthy, a friend to all.” “Solid where it counts” (which he wasn’t). “Call me Mr. Wall.” These ancient, moistened relics did not, to me, a real husband make. Though once they had to Sally—a tall, blond, blue-eyed beauty with small breasts, thin fingers, smooth legs, and a small limp from a tennis mishap—a college cheerleader who fell for the shy, heavy-legged, curiously-gazing rich boy in her genetics class, and who smiled when she talked because so much made her happy, who didn’t have problems with physical things and so introduced the trusting “Wall” to bed and to cheap motels out Highway 9, so captivating him that by spring break “they were pregnant.” And pregnant again and married by the time Wally got called by the Army and joined the Navy instead, in 1969, and went off to a war. From which, in a sense, he never returned. Though he tried for a couple of weeks in 1971, but just one day walked off from their little apartment in the Chicago suburb of Hoffman Estates, never to return with a sound or a glimpse. Kids, wife, parents, a few friends. A future. Boop. Over. This was the extent of my knowledge of Wally the uxorious. He was already legally “dead” when I came on the scene in ’87 and tried to rent Sally some expandable office space in Manasquan. She’d identified me from a bogus reminiscence I wrote for the Gulf Pines Pine Boughs newsletter, though I had no actual memory of Wally and was merely on the Casualties Committee, responsible for “personal” anecdotes about classmates nobody remembered, but whose loved ones didn’t want them seeming like complete ciphers or lost souls, even if they were. The thought that mystery man Walter B. Caldwell might still be alive was, as you can imagine, unwieldy personal cargo to be carrying home, Mississippi to New Jersey. There could probably be stranger turns of events. But if so I’d like you to name one. And, while you’re at it, name one you’d find easy to keep as your little secret, something you’d rather not have spread around. On arriving back to Sea-Clift, I decided that rogue rumors were always shooting around like paper airplanes in everybody’s life, and that this was likely just one more. Some old Lonesome Pines alum, deep in his cups and reeling through the red-light district of Amsterdam or Bangkok, suddenly spies a pathetic homeless man weaving on a corner, a large, fleshy, unshaven “American-looking” clod, filthy in a tattered, greasy overcoat and duct-taped shoes, yet who has a particularly arresting, sweet smile animating tiny haunted eyes and who seems to stare back knowingly. After a pause, there’s a second cadged look, then a long unformed thought about it, followed by a decision to leave well enough alone (where well enough’s always happiest). But, then, in memory’s narrow eye comes a fixifying certainty, an absolute recognition—a sighting. And kerplunk: Wally lives! (And will be in your house eating dinner by next Tuesday.) In eight years of what I thought was much more than satisfying-fulfilling marriage, not to mention thirty since Wally walked away and didn’t come back, Sally had made positive adjustments to what might’ve driven most people bat-shit crazy with anger and not-knowing, and with anxiety over the anger and not-knowing. Therefore to drop this little hand grenade of uncertainty into her life, I concluded, would actually be unfriendly. (I’d decided by then that it wasn’t true, so it really wasn’t a hand grenade in my life.) What was either of us supposed to do with the news, short of a full-bore “Have You Seen This Man” campaign (I didn’t want to see him), “aged” photos of Wally stapled to bulletin boards and splintery telephone poles beside aromatherapy flyers and lost-cat posters, with appeals made to “Live at 5”? After which he still wouldn’t show up. Because—of course—he’d long ago climbed over a bridge rail or slipped off a boat transom or a rockface in the remotest Arizona canyon and said goodbye to this world of woes. Case closed. R.I.P., Mr. Wall. My dream, instead of my nightmare, come true. To which fickle fate says: Dream on, dream on, dream on. Because, sometime in early May, Sally caught the United shuttle out to Chicago to visit the former in-laws in Lake Forest. I’m always officially invited to these events, but have never gone, for obvious reasons—although this might’ve been the time. The occasion was the aged Caldwells’ (Warner and Constance) sixtieth wedding anniversary. A party was planned at the formerly no-Jews-or-blacks-allowed Wik-O-Mek Country Club. Sally’s two grim, grown but disenchanted children, Shelby and Chloë, were supposedly coming from northern Idaho. They’d long ago fallen out with their mom over having their dad declared a croaker—prematurely, they felt. You can only imagine how they loathe me. Both kids are neck high in charismatic Mormon doings (likewise whites-only) out in Spirit Lake, where for all I know they practice cannibalism. They never send a Christmas card, though they plan to be in the “where’s mine” line when the grandparents shuffle off. When I first met Sally, she was still making piteous efforts to include them in her new life in New Jersey—all of which they rebuffed like cruel suitors, until she was compelled to close the door on both of them, which thrilled me. Too much unredeemed loss can be fatal. At some point—and its arrival may not be obvious, so you have to be on the lookout for it—you have to let life please you if it will, and consign the past to its midden (easier said than done, of course, as we all know). When Sally drove her renter from O’Hare to Lake Forest and up to the winding-drive, many-winged, moss-and-ivy-fronted fieldstone Caldwell manse, which sits on a bluff of the lake, she entered the long, drafty, monarchical drawing room with her folding suitcase—she was considered a beloved family member and didn’t need to knock. And there, seated on the rolled-and-pleated, overstuffed Victorian leather settee, looking for all the world like the Caldwells’ gardener asked in to review next season’s perennial-planning strategies (Did we do the jonquils right? Is there a reason to keep the wisteria, since it’s really not their climate?), there was a man she thought she’d never seen before but queerly felt she knew. (It was the beady, piggy eyes.) There was “the Wall.” Wally Caldwell. Her husband. Back from oblivion, at home in Lake Forest. I don’t know what went on that weekend. Pensive, hands-behind-the-back walks along the palliative Lake Michigan beach. Angry recrimination sessions out of earshot of the old folks. (Her kids blessedly didn’t show.) Moaning-crying jags, shouting, nights spent sweating, heart-battering, fists balled in fury, frustration, denial, and a crass inability to take it all in, to believe, to stare truth in the beezer. (Think how you’d feel!) And no doubt then the rueful, poisoned thoughts of why? And why now? Why not just last on to the end on Mull? (The craggy, windswept isle off Scotland’s coast where Wally’d moled away for decades.) Mull life over till nothing’s left of it, soldier the remaining yards alone, instead of fucking everything up for everybody—again. TV’s much better at these kinds of stories, since the imponderableness of it all is conveniently swept away when the commercials for drain openers, stool softeners, and talking potato chips pop on, and all’s electronically “forgotten,” during which time the aggrieved principals can make adjustments to life’s weird wreckage, get ready to come back and sort things out for the better, so that after many tears are shed, fists clenched, hearts broken but declared mendable, everyone’s again declared “all set,” as they say in New Jersey. All set? Ha! I say. Ha-ha, ha! Ha, ha-ha-ha! All set, my ass. Sally flew home on Monday—having said nothing of Johnny-jump-up Wally during our weekend phone calls. I drove to Newark to get her and on the ride back could tell she was plainly altered—by something—but said nothing. It is a well-learned lesson of second marriages never to insist on what you don’t absolutely have to insist on, since your feelings are probably about nothing but yourself and your own pitiable needs and are not appropriately sympathetic to the needs of the insistee in question. Second marriages, especially good ones like ours, could fill three doorstop-size reference books with black-letter do’s and don’ts. And you’d have to be studious if you hoped to get past Volume I. When we reached our house, No. 7 Poincinet Road, the sky was already resolving upon sunset. The western heavens were their brightest possible faultless blue. Pre-Memorial Day beach enthusiasts were packing up their books and blankets and transistors and sun reflectors, and heading off for a cocktail or a shrimp plate at the Surfcaster or a snuggle at the Conquistador Suites, as the air cooled and softened ahead of night’s fall. I put on my favorite Ben Webster, made a pair of Salty Dogs, thought about a drive later on up to Ortley Beach for a grilled bluefish at Neptune’s Daily Catch Bistro and conceivably a snuggle of our own to the accompaniment of nature’s sift and sigh and the muttered voices of the striper fishermen who haunt our beach after the tide’s turn. And then she simply told me, just as I was walking into the living room, ready for a full debriefing. Something there is in humans that wants to make sure you’re doing something busying at the exact instant of hearing unwelcome news—as though if your hands are full you’ll just rumble right on through the whole thing, unfazed. “Wally? Alive? Really? Here, try a sip of this, see if I put in too much Donald Duck. Happy to add more Gilbey’s. Well, ole Wall—whaddaya know? How’d the Wall seem? Don’t you just love how Ben gets that breathy tremolo into ‘Georgia on My Mind’? Hoagy’d love it. Give Wally my best. How was it to be dead?” I should say straight out: never tell anyone that you know how she or he feels unless you happen to be, just at that second, stabbing yourself with the very same knife in the very same place in the very same heart that she or he is stabbing. Because, if you’re not, then you don’t know how that person feels. I can barely tell you how I felt when Sally said, “Frank, when I got to Lake Forest, Wally was there.” (Use of my name, Frank, as always, a harbinger of things unpopular. I should change my name to Al.) I know for a fact that I said nothing when I heard these words. I managed to put my Salty Dog down on the glass coffee table and lower myself onto the brown suède couch beside her, to put both my hands on top of my knees and gaze out at the darkening Atlantic, where the ghostly figures of high-booted fishermen faced the surf and, far out to sea, the sky still showed a brilliant reflected sliver of azure. Sally sat as I did and may have felt as I did—surprised. Sometimes simple words are the best, better than images of the world cracking open; or of how much everything’s like a sitcom and what a pity William Bendix isn’t still around to play Wally—or me. Or the ethical-culture response: that catastrophe’s “a good thing for everybody,” since it dramatizes life’s great mystery and reveals how much all is artifice. “Surprised” is good enough. When I heard that Wally Caldwell, age fifty-five, missing for thirty years, during which time many things had happened and substantial adjustments had been made to the nature of existence on earth—when I heard that Wally was alive in Lake Forest and had spent the weekend doing God knows what with my wife, I was surprised. Sally’d had three days with Wally already. She had gotten over the shock of a bearded, avuncular, and strange Wally hiding out in his parents’ house like some scary older brother with a terrible wound, whom you see only flickeringly behind shadowy chintz curtains in an upstairs dormer window, but who may be heard to moan. Her attitude was—and I liked it, since it was typical of her get-up-and-fix-things positivism—that while, yes, Wally’s reappearance had caused some tricky issues to pop up, needing to be resolved, and that while she understood how “this whole business” maybe put me in an awkward position (vis-à-vis, say, the past, the present, and the future), this was still a “human situation,” no one was a culprit (of course not), no one had bad will (except me), and we would all address this situation as a threesome, so that as little damage as possible would be done to as few innocent souls and lives. Wally’s story, she told me, sitting on the suède couch that faced out to the springtime Atlantic, as our Salty Dogs turned watery and dark descended, was “one of those stories” fashioned by war and trauma, by sadness, fear, and resentment, and by the chaotic urge to escape all the other causes, aided by (what else?) “some kind of schizoid detachment” that induced amnesia, so that for years Wally couldn’t remember big portions of his prior life, although certain portions were crystal clear. Wally, it seems, couldn’t put everything together, though he admitted he hadn’t just gone out to pick up the Trib thirty years ago, bumped his head getting into his Beetle, and suffered a curtain to close. It had to have been—this he’d no doubt admitted on one of their cozy Lake Michigan beach tête-à-têtes—that “something unconscious was working on him,” some failure to face the world he confronted as a Viet vet with a (minor) head wound and a family and a future as a horticulturist looming, the whole undifferentiated world just flooding in on him like a dam bursting with cows and trees and cars and church steeples swirling away in the gully wash, and him in with them. (There are good strategies for coping with this kind of thing, of course, but you have to want to.) Cutting (blessedly) to the chase, Wally’s trauma, fear, resentment, and elective amnesia had carried him as far away from the Chicago suburbs, from his wife and two kids, as Glasgow, in Scotland, where for a time he became “caught up” in “the subculture” that lived communally, practiced good feeling for everything, experimented with cannabis and other mind-rousing drugs, fucked like bunny rabbits, made jewelry by hand and sold it on damp streets, practiced subsistence-farming techniques, made their own clothes and set their communal sights on spiritual-but-not-mainstream-religious revelation. In other words, the Manson Family, led by Ozzie and Harriet. Eventually, Wally said, the “petrol” had run out of the communal subculture, and he had migrated up to the “wilds” of Scotland, first to the Isle of Skye, then to Harris, then to Muck, and finally to Mull, where he’d found employment in the “Scottish blackface” industry (sheep) and finally—more to his talents and likings—as a gardener on the laird’s estate and, as time went on, as head gardener and arborist (the laird was wild for planting spruce trees), and eventually as the estate manager for the entire shitaree. A complete existence was there, Wally said, a long way from Lake Forest “and that whole life” (again, meaning wife and kids), from the Cubs, the Wrigley Building, the Sears Tower, the river dyed green—again, the whole deluging, undifferentiated crash-in of modern existence, American style, whose sudsy, brown-tree-trunk-littered surface most of us somehow manage to keep our heads above so we can see our duty and do it. I’m not impartial in these matters. Why should I be? In due time, Wally got used to living semi-officially in the stone manager’s cottage, scrubbing the loo, restocking the fridge with haggis, smoking fish, burning peat, reading the Herald, listening to Radio 4, snapping on the telly, sipping his cuppa, keeping his Wellies dry and his Barbour waxed during the long Mull winters. This was the wee life, the one he was suited for and entitled to and where he expected his days to end among the cold stones and rills and crags and moors and cairns and gorse and windblown cedars of his own dull nature—there in his half-chosen, half-fated, half-fucked-up-and-escaped-to destination resort from life gone kaflooey. Enter then the Internet—in the form of the old laird’s young son, Morgil, who’d taken the reins of the property (having been to college at Florida State) and who’d begun to suspect that this lumpy American in the manager’s accommodation was probably other than he’d declared himself, was possibly an old draft dodger or a fugitive from some abysmal crime in his own country—some guy who dressed up in clown suits and ate little boys for lunch. The standard idea of America, viewed from abroad. What young Morgil found when he checked—and who’d be shocked—was a “Wally Caldwell” Web site that the old Lake Forest parents had erected as a last hope, or whatever inspires Web sites. No outstanding warrants, Interpol alerts, or Scotland Yard red flags were attached to the site, only several sequentially aged photos of Wally (one actually in a Barbour) that looked exactly like the Wally out planting spruce sprigs and pruning other ones like a character in D. H. Lawrence. Young Morgil didn’t feel it would be right to send a blind message out of the blue, so he tacked a note to Wally’s door the next morning—a color printout of the Caldwell home page, the computerized middle-aged face side by side with the yearbook photo from Illinois State (“Call me Mr. Wall”). No mention was made of Sally, Shelby, and Chloë, or of the fact that he’d been declared expired. The only words it contained were his parents’ tender entreaties: “Come home, Wally, wherever you are, if you are. We’re not mad at you. We’re still here in Lake Forest, Mom and Dad. We can’t last forever.” And so he did. Wally crossed the sea to home and the welcome arms of his mom and dad. A changed bloke, but nonetheless their moody, slow-thinking son. Which was the strange tableau my unsuspecting wife walked in on, carrying her suitcase and lost memories. At the conclusion of Sally’s long recitation of the missing-Wally saga, a chronicle I wasn’t that riveted by, since I didn’t think it could foretell any good for me (I was right), she announced that she needed to take a nap. Events had pretty well wrung her out. She knew that I was not exactly a grinning cheerleader to these matters, that I was possibly as “mixed up” as she was (not true), and she needed just to lie in the dark alone for a while and let things—her word—“settle.” She smiled at me, went around the room turning on lamps, suffusing the dark space she was abandoning me to with a bronze funeral-parlor light. She came around to where I’d stood up in front of the couch and kissed me on my cheek (oh, Lord) in a pallbearerish, buck-up-bud sort of way, then ceremoniously mounted the stairs not to our room, not to the marriage bower, the conjugal sanctum of sweet intimacies and blissful nod. But to the guest room! I might’ve gone crazy right then. I should’ve let her mount the stairs (I heard the guest-room floorboards squeezing), waited for her to get her shoes shucked and herself plopped wearily onto the cold counterpane, then roared upstairs, proclaiming and defaming, vilifying and contumelating, snatching knobs off doors, kicking table legs to splinters, cracking mirrors with my voice—laying down the law as I saw it and as it should be and as it served and protected. Let everybody on Poincinet Road and up the seaboard and all the ships at sea know that I’d sniffed out what was being served and wasn’t having it and neither was anybody else inside my walls. One party left alone to his heartless devices, in his own heartless living room, while another heartless party skulks away to dreamland to revise fate and providence, ought to produce some ornate effects. No fucking way, José. This shit doesn’t wash. My way or the highway. Irish (or Scots) need not apply. Members only. Don’t even think of parking here. But I didn’t. And why I didn’t was: I felt secure. Even though I could sense something approaching, like those elephants who feel the stealthy footfalls of Pygmy spear-toters far across savannas and flooded rivers. I felt at liberty to take an interest, to put on the white lab coat of objective investigator, to be Sally’s partner with a magnifying glass, curious to find out what these old bones, relics, and potsherds of lost love have to tell. These stationary moments are the very ones, of course, when large decisions get decided. Great literature routinely skips them in favor of seismic shifts, hysterical laughter, and worlds cracking open, and in that way does us all a grave disservice. What I did while Sally slept in the guest room was make myself a fresh Salty Dog, open a can of cocktail peanuts, and eat half of them, since bluefish at Neptune’s Daily Catch had become a dead letter. I switched off the lights, sat awhile in the leather director’s chair, hunkered forward over my knees in the chilly living room, and watched phosphorescent water lap the moonlit alabaster beach till way past high tide. Then I went upstairs to my “home office” and read the Asbury Park Press—stories about Elián González being preënrolled at Yale, a plan to make postmodern sculpture out of Y2K preventive gear and place it on the statehouse lawn in Trenton, a C.I.A. warning about a planned attack on our shores by Iran, and a lawsuit over a Circuit City in Bradley Beach being turned down by the local planning board, with the headline reading “HOW’S THE DOWNTICK AFFECTING HOLIDAY SHOPPING?” I rechecked my rental inventory. (Memorial Day was three weeks away.) I took note that the N.J. Real Estate Cold Call reported that four million of our citizens were working, while only 4.1 per cent of our population was not—the longest economic boom in our history (now giving hissing sounds around the edges). Finally, I went back down, turned on the TV, watched the Nets lose to the Pistons, and went to sleep on the couch in my clothes. This isn’t to suggest that Wally’s reëmergence hadn’t caught my notice and didn’t burn my ass and didn’t cause me to think that discomforting, messy, troublesome readjustments would need to take place and soon. Readjustments requiring Wally’s being declared un-dead, requiring divorcing, estate replanning, and updated survivorship provisos, all while recriminations cut the air like steak knives, and all lasting a long time and raking everybody’s patience, politeness, and complex sense of themselves over the hot coals like spareribs. That was going to happen. I may also have felt vulnerable to the accusation of marital Johnny-come-lately-ism. Though I’d never have met Sally Caldwell, never have married her (though I might still have romanced her), had it not been that Wally was gone—we all thought—for good. What I, in fact, felt was: on my guard—but safe. The way you’d feel if crime statistics spiked in your neighborhood but you’d just rescued a two-hundred-pound Rottweiler from the shelter who saw you as his only friend whereas the wide world was his enemy. Sally’s and my marriage seemed as contingency-proof as we could construct it, using the human materials we’re all equipped with. The other thing about second marriages—unlike first ones, which require only hot impulse and drag-strip hormones—is that they need good reasons to exist, reasons you’re smart to pore over and get straight well beforehand. Sally and I had both conducted independent inquiries back when we met, and had each made a clear decision that marriage—to each other—promised more than anything else we could think of that would probably make us both “happy,” and that neither of us harbored a single misgiving that wasn’t appropriate to life anyway (illness we’d share; death we’d expect; depression we’d treat), and that any more time spent deciding was time we could spend having the time of our lives. Which as far as I’m concerned—and I know that Sally felt the same—we did. Which is to say, we practiced the sweet legerdemain of adulthood shared. We formally renounced our unmarried personalities. We generalized the past on behalf of a sleek second-act mentality that viewed the leading edge of life to be all life was. We acknowledged that strong feelings were superior to original happiness, and promised never to ask the other if she or he really, really, really loved him or her, in the faith that affinity was love, and we had affinity. We stressed nuance and advocated that however we seemed was how we were. We declared that we were good in bed, and that lack of intimacy was usually self-imposed. We kept our kids at a wary but (at least in my case) positive distance. We deëmphasized becoming on behalf of being. We permanently renounced melancholy and nostalgia. We performed intentionally pointless acts like flying to Moline or Flint and back the same day because we were “archeologists.” We ate Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners at named exits on the New Jersey Turnpike. We considered buying a pet refuge in Nyack, a B. & B. in New Hampshire. In other words, we put in practice what the great novelist said about marriage (though he never quite had the genome for it himself). “If I should ever marry,” he wrote, “I should pretend to think just a little better of life than I do.” In Sally’s case and mine, we thought a lot better of life than we’d ever thought we could. We were happy. We really, really loved each other. We lived. Together. And we didn’t do a lot of looking right or left. When Sally came down later that night and found me asleep on the couch beside the can of Planters with the TV playing “The Third Man” (the scene where Joseph Cotten gets bitten by the parrot), she wasn’t unhappy with me—though she certainly wasn’t happy. I understood that she’d just come unexpectedly face to face with big contingency—the thing we’d schemed against and almost beaten, and probably the only contingency that could’ve risen to eye level and stared us down: the reënlivening of Wally. And she didn’t know what to do about it—though I did. All marriages—all everythings—tote around contingencies whether we acknowledge them or don’t. In all things good and giddy, there’s always one measly eventuality that no one’s thought about, or that hasn’t been thought about in so long it almost doesn’t exist. Only it does. Which is the one potentially fatal chink in the body armor of intimacy, in the unconditional this ’n’ that, in the sacred vows, the pledging of troths, in the forever anythings. And that is: there’s a back door somewhere to every deal, and there a draft can enter. All promises to be in love and “true to you forever” are premised on the iron contingency (unlikely or otherwise) that says: unless, of course, I fall in love “forever” with someone else. This is true even if we don’t like it, which means that it isn’t cynical to think it, but also means that someone else—someone we love and whom we’d rather have not know it—is as likely to know it as we are. Which acknowledgment may finally be as close to absolute intimacy as any of us can stand. Anything closer to the absolute than this is either death or as good as death. And death’s where I draw the line. Realtors, of course, know all this better than anyone, since there’s a silent Wally Caldwell in every deal, right down to the act of sale (which is like death) and sometimes even beyond it. In every agreement to buy or sell, there’s also the proviso, acknowledged or not, that says “unless, of course, I don’t want to anymore,” or “that is, unless I change my mind,” or “assuming my yoga instructor doesn’t advise against it.” The hallowed concept of character was invented to seal off these contingencies. But in this wan millennial election year are we really going to say that this concept is worth a nickel or a nacho? Or, for that matter, ever was? Sally stood at the darkened thermal-glass window that gave upon the lightless Atlantic. She’d slept in her clothes, too, and was barefoot and had a green L. L. Bean blanket around her shoulders. I’d opened the door to the deck, and inside it was fifty degrees. I came awake studying her inky back without realizing that it was her inky back, or that it was even her—wondering if I was hallucinating or was it an optical trick of waking in darkness, or had a stranger or a ghost entered my house for shelter and not noticed me snoozing. I realized it was Sally only when I thought of Wally and of the despondency his renewed life might promise me. “Do you feel a little better?” I wanted to let her know that I was here still among the living and that we’d been having a conversation earlier that I considered to be still going on. “No.” Hers was a mournful, husky, elderly-seeming voice. She pinched her Bean’s blanket around her shoulders and coughed. “I feel terrible. But I feel exhilarated, too. My stomach’s got butterflies and knots at the same time. Isn’t that peculiar?” “No, I wouldn’t say that was necessarily so peculiar.” I was trying my investigator’s white lab coat on for size. “A part of me wants to feel like my life’s a total ruin and a fuckup, that there’s a right way to do things and I’ve made a disaster out of it. That’s how it feels.” She wasn’t facing me. I didn’t really feel like I was talking to her. But, if not to her, then to who? “That’s not true,” I said. “You didn’t do anything wrong. You just flew to Chicago.” “There’s no sense to spool everything back to sources, but I might’ve been a better wife to Wally.” “You’re a good wife. You’re a good wife to me.” And then I didn’t say this but thought it: And fuck Wally. He’s an asshole. I’ll gladly have him big-K killed and his body Hoffa’d out for birdseed. “What do you feel exhilarated about?” I said instead. Mr. Empathy. “I’m not sure.” She flashed a look around, her blond hair catching light from somewhere, her face tired and marked with shadowy lines from too sound sleep and the fatigue of travel. “Well,” I said, “exhilaration doesn’t hurt anything. Maybe you were glad to see him. You always wondered where he went.” I put a single cocktail peanut into my dry mouth and crunched it down. She turned back to the cold window, which was probably making her cold. “What’s he going to do now,” I said, “have himself reincarnated, or whatever you do?” “It’s pretty simple.” “I’ll keep that in mind. What about the being-married-to-you part? Does he get to do that again? Or do I get you as salvage?” “You get me as salvage.” She turned and walked slowly to where I sat staring up at her, slightly dazzled, as if she were the ghost I’d mistaken her for. Her limp was pronounced because she was beat. She sat on the couch and leaned into me so I could smell the sweated, unwashed dankness of her hair. She put her hand limply on my knee and sighed as if she’d been holding her breath and hadn’t realized it till now. Her coarse blanket prickled through my shirt. “He’d like to meet you,” she said. “Or maybe I want him to meet you.” “Absolutely,” I said, and could identify a privileged sarcasm. “We’ll invite some people over. Maybe I’ll interest him in a summer rental.” “That’s not really necessary, is it?” “Yes. I’m in command of my necessaries. You be in command of yours.” “Don’t be bad to me about this. It flabbergasts me as much as it does you.” “That isn’t true. I’m not exhilarated. Why are you exhilarated? I answered that for you, but I don’t like my answer.” “Mmm. I think it’s just so strange, and so familiar. I’m not mad at him anymore. I was for years. I was when I first saw him. It was like meeting the President or some famous person. I know him so well and then there he is and, of course, I don’t know him. There was something exciting about that.” She looked at me, put her hands atop each other on my cold knee, and smiled a sweet, tired, imploring, mercy-hoping smile. And then we didn’t speak for a little while, just sat breathing in the cold air, each of us fancifully, forcefully seeking a context in which our separate views could join forces and fashion an acceptable and unified response. I was further from the middle of events and had some perspective, so the heavier burden fell on me. I’d already started suiting up in the raiments of patient understander. Oh, woe. Oh, why? “Something has to happen,” Sally said with unwanted certainty. “Something had to happen when Wally left. Something has to happen now that he’s back. Nothing can’t happen. That’s my feeling.” “Who says?” “Me,” she said sadly. “I do.” “What has to happen?” “I have to spend some time with him.” Sally spoke reluctantly. “You’d want to do the same thing, Frank.” She wrinkled her chin and slightly puffed her compressed lips. She often took on this look when she was sitting at her desk composing a letter. “No, I wouldn’t. I’d buy him a first-class ticket to any place he wanted to go in Micronesia and never think about him again. Where’re you planning to spend time with him? The Catskills? The Lower Atlas? Am I supposed to be there, too, so I can get closer to my needs? I’m close enough to them now. I’m sitting beside you. I’m married to you.” “You are married to me.” She actually gasped then and sobbed, then gasped again and squeezed my hand harder than anybody’d ever squeezed it, and shook her head from side to side so that tears dashed onto my cheek. It was as if we were both crying. Though why I would’ve been crying, I don’t know. I should’ve been howling. I’ll make the rest short, though it’s not sweet. I buttoned the buttons on my moral investigator’s lab coat and got busy with the program. Sally said she’d be willing to invite Wally down to Sea-Clift—either to a rental she would arrange for him (using who as agent?) or to our house, where he could put up in one of the two guest rooms for the short time he’d be here. The oddest things can be made to seem plausible if you insist they are. Remember Huxley on Einstein. Remember the Trojan Horse. Or else, Sally said, she and he could “go away somewhere” (the Rif, the Pampas, the Silk Road to Cathay). They wouldn’t be “together,” of course, more like brother and sister having a wander, during which crucial period they’d perform what few in their situation (how many are in that situation?) could hope to perform: a putting to rest, an airing, a reëxamination of old love allowed to wither and die, saying the unsayable, feeling the unpermitted, reconciling paths not taken and those taken. Cleanse and heal, come back stronger. Come back to me. Yes, there might be some crying, some shouting, some laughter, some hugging, some crisp slappings across the face. But they would be “within a context,” and in “real time,” or some such nonsense, and all those decades would be drained of their sour water, rolled up, and put away like a late-autumn garden hose, never to leave the garage again. In other words, all this turmoil was a “good thing” (if not for everybody)—life’s mystery dramatized, all is artifice, connected boxes, etc., etc., etc. The Silk Road strategy didn’t appeal to me, for obvious reasons. I suggested (these things do happen) that we invite the Wall down for a week (or less). He could bivouac upstairs, set out all his toilet articles in the guest bath. I had nothing to fear from an ex-dead man. I’d tin his ears about the real-estate business, talk over the election, the Cubs, the polar ice cap, the Middle East. Though mostly I’d just stay the hell away from him, fish the Hendrickson hatch at the Red Man Club, test-drive new Lexuses, sell a house or two—whatever it took, while the two of them did what they needed to do to get that moldy old hose put away on the garage nail of the past tense. On the twenty-third of May, Wally “the Weasel,” as he was known in military school, my wife’s quasi husband, father of her two maniac children, Viet vet, combat casualty, freelance amnesiac, cut-and-run artist par excellence, heir to a sizable North Shore fortune, meek arborist, unmourned former dead man, and big-time agent of misrule—my enemy—this Wally Caldwell entered my peaceful house on the Jersey Shore to work his particular dark magic on us all. Sally became convulsively nervous, oversensitive and irritable, as the hour of Wally’s arrival neared. (I affected calm to show I didn’t care.) She smoked several cigarettes (the first time in twenty years), drank a double Martini at ten o’clock in the morning, changed her clothes three times, then stood out on the deck sporting stiff white sailcloth trousers, new blue French espadrilles, a blue-and-white middy blouse, and extremely dark sunglasses. All was a calculated livery betokening casual, welcoming resolution and sunny invulnerability, depicting a life so happy, invested, entitled, entrenched, comprehended, spiritual, and history-laden that Wally would take a quick peek at the whole polished array, then hop back in the cab and start the long journey back to Mull. I will concede that the real Wally, the portly, thin-lipped, timidly smiling, gray-toothed, small-eyed, thick-fingered, suitcase-carrying bullock who struggled out of the Newark yellow cab didn’t seem a vast challenge to my or anyone’s sense of permanence. I had perfect no-recollection of him from forty years ago and felt strangely, warmly (wrongly) welcoming toward him, the way you’d feel about a big, softhearted pfc. in a fifties war movie who you know is going to be picked off by a Kraut sniper in the first thirty minutes. Wally had on his green, worn-smooth corduroys—though it was already summery and he was sweltering—a faded, earthy-smelling, purple cardy over a green-and-ginger rugger shirt under which his hod-carrier belly tussled for freedom. He wore heavy gray woollen socks, no hat, and the previously mentioned smelly but not mud-spackled Barbour from his days nerdling about the gorse and rank topsoil of his adopted island paradise. He brought with him a bottle of twenty-year-old Glen Matoon and a box of Cohiba Robustos—for me. I still have them at the office and occasionally consider smoking one as a joke, though it’d probably explode. He also brought—for Sally—a strange assortment of Scottish cooking herbs he’d obviously bought for his parents at the Glasgow airport, plus a tin of shortcakes “for the house.” He was at least six feet two, newly beardless, nearly bald, weighed a fair seventeen stone, and spoke English in a halting, swallowing, slightly high-pitched semi-brogue with a vocabulary straight out of the seventies U.S. He said “Chicagoland,” as in “We left Chicagoland at the crack of dawn.” And he said “super,” as in “We had some super tickets to Wrigley.” And he said “z’s,” as in “I copped some righteous z’s on the plane.” And he said “g-b,” as in “I banged down a g-b”—a gut-bomb—“before we left Chicagoland, and it tasted super.” He was, this once-dead Wally, not the strangest concoction of Homo sapiens genetic material ever presented to me, but he was certainly the most complexly pathetic and ill-starred—a wide-eyed, positive-outlook type, ill at ease and conspicuous in his lumpy flesh, but also strangely serene and on occasion pompous and ribald, like the downstate S.A.E. he was back when life was simpler. How he made it on Mull is a mystery. Needless to say, I loathed him (warm feelings aside), couldn’t comprehend how anybody who could love me could ever have loved Wally, and wanted him out of the house the second he was in it. We shook hands limply, in the manner of a cold prisoner exchange on the Potsdam ridge. I spoke tersely, idiotically: “Welcome to Sea-Clift, and to our home,” which I didn’t mean. He said something about how “. . . whole layout’s . . . super,” and he was “chuffed” to be here. Wally was in my house in Sea-Clift for five uncomfortable days. I tried to go about my diurnal duties, spending time early to late in the office, where I had summer renters arriving, plumbers and carpenters and cleaning crews and yard-maintenance personnel to dispatch and lightly supervise. I sold a house on the bay side of Sea-Clift, took a bid on but failed to sell another. Normally I’d have been home for lunch, but in grudging deference to what was going on in my house I ate glutinous woodsman’s casserole, Welsh rarebit, and ham and green beans at the Commodore’s table at the Yacht Club, where I’m a “non-boating” member. Each evening I went home, tired and ready for a rewarding cocktail and supper and an early-to-bed. Wally was most times in the living room reading Time magazine, or on the deck with my binoculars, or in the kitchen loading up a Dagwood, or outside having a disapproving look at the arborvitae and hydrangeas or staring up at the shorebirds. Sally was almost never in sight when Wally was, leaving the impression that whatever they were carrying on between them during the day and my absence—hugging, face-slapping, laughing that ended in tears—was all pretty trying, and I wouldn’t have liked seeing her face then, and in any case she needed to recover from it. I certainly didn’t know what the hell any of us were doing—though who would? If you’d told me that the two of them never so much as spoke, or that they went for polka lessons, or read the I Ching together, or shot heroin, I’d have had to believe it. Was it, I wondered, that everything was just too awkward, too revealing, too anxious-making, too upsetting, too embarrassing, too intimidating, too intrusive, or just too private to exhibit in front of me—the husband, the patient householder, the rate-payer, the sandwich-bread buyer? And also now a stranger? In bed each night, with Sally returned, though asleep when her head hit the pillow, I lay awake and listened to Wally’s human noises across the hall in “his” room. He played the radio—not loud—tuned to an all-news station that occasionally made him chuckle. He took long forceful pisses into his toilet to let off the lager he drank at dinner. He produced a cannonade of burps, followed by a word of demure apology to no one: “Oh, goodness, who let that go?” He walked around heavily in his sock feet, yawned with a high-pitched keening sound that only a man used to living alone ever makes. He did some sort of brief grunting calisthenics, presumably on the floor, then plopped into bed and set up an amazing lion’s den of snarfling-snoring that forced me to flatten my head between pillows, so that I woke up in the morning with both hands numb as death, my eyes smarting, and my neck sore. During the five days of Wally’s visit, I twice asked Sally how things were going. The first time—this was two seconds before she fell into sleep, leaving me in bed listening to stertorous Wally—she said, “Fine. I’m glad I’m doing this. You’re magnificent to put up with it. I’m sorry I’m cranky . . . zzzzzzz.” Magnificent. She had never before referred to me as magnificent, even in my best early days. The other time, we were seated, facing across the circular glass-topped breakfast table. Wally was still upstairs sawing logs. I was heading off to the Realty-Wise office. It was Day Three. We hadn’t said much about anything in the daylight. To freshen the air, I said, “You’re not going to leave me for Wally, are you?” I gave her a big, smirking grin and stood up, napkin in hand. To which she answered, looking up, plainly dismayed, “I don’t think so.” Then she looked out at the ocean, on which a white boat full of day fishermen sat anchored a quarter mile offshore, their short poles bristling off one side, their boat tipped, all happy anglers, hearts set on a flounder or a shark. They were probably Japanese. Something she noticed when she saw them may have offered solace. But. I don’t think so? No grateful smile, no wink, no rum mouth pulled to signal no worries, no way, no dice. I don’t think so was not an answer Ann Landers would’ve considered insignificant. “Dear Franky in the Garden State, I’d lock up the silverware if I were you, boy-o. You’ve got a rough intruder in your midst. You need to do some nighttime sentry duty on your marriage bed. Condition red, Fred.” Wally gave no evidence of thinking himself a rough intruder or a devious conniver after my happiness. In spite of his strange splintered, half North Shore-fatty, half earnest-blinking-Scots-gardener persona (a veteran stage actor playing Falstaff with an Alabama accent), Wally did his seeming best to spend his days in a manner that did least harm. He always smiled when he saw me. He occasionally wanted to talk about beach erosion. He advised me to put more aluminum sulfate on my hydrangeas to make the color last. Otherwise, he stayed out of sight much of the time. And I now believe, though no one’s told me, that Sally had actually forced him to come: to make him suffer penance, to show him that abandonment had worked out well for her, to embarrass the shit out of him, to confuse him, to make him miss her miserably, make me seem his superior, plus darker reasons that I assume are involved in almost everything we do and that there’s no use thinking about. But what else was she supposed to do? How else to address the past and loss? Was there an approved mechanism for redressing such an affront besides blunt instinct? What other kind of synergy reconciles a loss so great—and so weird? It’s true I might’ve approached it differently. But sometimes you just have to wing it. Wally and I never talked about “the absence” (which Sally said was his name for being gone for thirty years) or anything related to their kids, his parents, his other life and lives (though, of course, he and Sally might’ve). We never talked about when he might be leaving or how he was experiencing life in my house. Never talked about the future—his or Sally’s or mine. We never talked about the Presidential election, since that had a root system that could lead to sensitive subjects—morality, dubious ethics, uncertain outcomes, and also plainly bad outcomes. I wanted to keep it clear that he was never for one instant welcome in my house, and that I pervasively did not like him. I don’t know what he thought or how he truly felt; I only know how he was in his conduct, which wasn’t that bad and, in fact, evidenced a small, unformed nobility, although heavy-bellied and gooberish. I did my best. And maybe he did his. Wally departed on the morning of Day Five. Sally said that he was going, and I made it my business to get the hell out of the house at daybreak. I hung around the office the rest of the morning, catching cold calls and running credit checks on new rental clients. Then I drove home, where Sally kissed me and hugged me when I walked in the door as if I’d been away on a long journey. She looked pale and drained—not like somebody who’d been crying but like somebody who might’ve been on a roadside when two speeding cars or two train engines or two jet airplanes collided in front of her. She said that she was sorry about the whole week, that she knew it had taken a toll on all of us, but probably mostly me (which wasn’t true), that Wally would never again come into the house, even though he’d asked her to thank me for letting him “visit,” and even though having him here, as awful as it was, had served some “very positive purposes” that would never have gotten served any other way. She said that she loved me and that she wanted to make love right then, in the living room on the suède couch where this had all started. But because the meter reader knocked at the front door and the neighbor’s dog started barking at him out in the road, we moved—naked as two bushmen—up to the bedroom. Next day, I assumed—believed—matters would begin shifting back toward normal. I wanted us to drive over to the Red Man Club for an outing of fishing and fiddlehead hunting, and a trek along the Pequest to seek out the Sampson’s-warbler pairs that nest in our woods and nowhere else in New Jersey. I intended to put in an order for a new Lexus at Sea Girt Imports—a surprise for Sally’s birthday, in three weeks. I’d already made a trip up to consult color charts and take a test-drive. Sally, however, stayed in bed all day, as if she herself had been on a long and arduous journey. While she rested, I drove myself over to the movie theatre at the Ocean County Mall and saw “Charlie’s Angels,” then bought lobsters on the way home and cooked them for dinner—though Sally barely rallied to work on hers, while I demolished mine. She went to bed early again—after I asked if maybe she should call Dr. Blumberg on Monday and schedule a workup. Maybe she was anemic. She said she would, then went to sleep at nine and slept twelve hours, emerging downstairs into the kitchen Sunday morning, weak-eyed, sallow, and sunk-shouldered—where I was eating a pink grapefruit—to tell me that she was leaving me to live with Wally on Mull, and that she’d decided it was worse to let someone you love be alone forever than to be with someone (me!) who didn’t need her all that much, even though she knew I loved her and she loved me. To this day I don’t understand this calculus, though it has a lot in common with other things people do. She was wearing an old-fashioned lilac sateen peignoir set with pink ribbonry stitched around the jacket collar. She was thin-armed, bare-legged, her skin wan and blotchy from sleep, her eyes colorless in their glacial blue. She was barefoot, a sign of primal resolution. She blinked at me as if sending me a message in Morse code: goodbye, goodbye, goodbye. Oh, I protested. May it not be said that I failed of ardor at that crucial moment. (The past, critics have attested, seems settled and melancholy, but I was boisterous in that present.) I was by turns disbelieving, shocked, angry, tricked-feeling, humiliated, gullible, and stupid. I became analytical, accusatory, revisionist, self-justifying, self-abnegating, and inventive of better scenarios than being abandoned. Patiently (I wasn’t truly patient; I wanted to slit Wally open like a bulgy feed sack) and lovingly (which I surely was), I testified that I needed her the way hydrogen needs oxygen—she should know that, had known it for years. If she needed time—with Wally, on Mull—I could understand. She should go there and do that. Hang out. Plant little trees in little holes. Go native. Act married. Talk, slap, hug, giggle, groan, cry. But come home! I’d tear down conventional boundaries if we could just keep an understanding alive. Did I say beg? I begged. I already said I cried. To which Sally said, shoulders slack, eyes lowered, slender hands clasped on the tabletop, her little finger lightly touching the covered Quimper butter dish she at one time had felt great affection for, and that I subsequently winged across the room to death by smithereens, “I think I have to make this permanent, sweetheart. Even if I regret it and later come crying to you, and you’re with some other woman, and won’t talk to me, and my life is lost. I have to.” Strange grasp on “permanent,” I thought, though my eyes burbled with tears. “It’s not like we’re dealing with hard kernels of truth here,” I said pitiably. “This is all pretty discretionary, if you ask me.” “No,” she said, which is when she took her wedding ring off and laid it on the glass pane of the tabletop, causing a hard little tap I’ll never, ever forget, even if she comes back. “This is so terrible,” I said, in full cry. I wanted to howl like a dog. “I know.” “Do you love Wally more than you love me?” She shook her head in a way that made her face appear famished and exhausted, though she couldn’t look at me, just at the ring she’d a moment before relinquished. “I don’t know that I love him at all.” “Then what the fuck!” I shouted. “Can you just do this?” “I don’t think I can’t do it,” Sally—my wife—said. And essentially that was that. Double negative makes a positive. She was gone by cocktail hour, which I observed alone. Somewhere once I read that harsh words are all alike. You can make them up and be right. The same is true of explanations. I never caught them smooching. Probably they didn’t smooch. Neither did they stop midsentence in an intimate moment just when I strode through a door. (I never strode through any without whistling a happy tune first.) Sally and I never visited a counsellor to hash out problems, or endured any serious arguments. There wasn’t time before she left. Apart from when I first knew Sally, Wally had never been a feature of our daily converse. Everybody has their casualties; we get used to them like old photographs we glance at but keep in a trunk. My personal view is that Sally got caught unawares in the great, deep, and confusing eddy of contingency, which has other contingency streams running into it, some visible, some too deep-coursing for us to know about. That she began, in spite of what she might’ve said, to fear permanence, to fear no longer becoming, to dread a life that couldn’t be trashed and squandered. Put simply, she was unprepared to be like me—which is a natural state that marriage ought to accommodate and make survivable. Heavy-footed, unnuanced, burping, yerping Wally may have reminded Sally that she had unfinished business in the last century and couldn’t reason it away in the jolly manner in which I’d reasoned myself into a late-in-life marriage and lived happily by its easy-does-it house rules. First marriages have too much past clanking along behind them; but second ones may have too little, and thus lack ballast. And so it’s good odds that Sally had no choice but to hand me her wedding ring like a layaway clerk at Zales and push herself out of the eddy of our life and take the current wherever it led. I’ll admit that I’m no longer so blue about Sally’s absence as once I was. I don’t feature myself living alone forever, just as I wouldn’t concede to staying a Realtor forever, and mostly tend to think of life itself as a made-up thing composed of today, maybe tomorrow, and probably not the next day, with as little of the past added in as possible. I feel, in fact, a goodly tincture of regret for Sally. Because even though I believe that her sojourn on Mull will not last so long, by rechoosing Wally she has embraced the impossible, inaccessible past, and by doing so has risked or even exhausted an extremely useful longing—possibly her most important one, the one she’s made good use of all these years to fuel her present, where I found a place. This is why the dead should stay dead and why in time the land lies smooth all around them.
The Phone Call Although the complete text of Solzhenitsyn’s first full-length novel, “The First Circle,” has been published in Russia, the only version available in English so far is an abbreviated text that Solzhenitsyn “lightened” in the vain hope of getting it past Soviet censors. The “lightened” version opens in December, 1949, as Innokentii Volodin, a Soviet diplomat, tries to caution a doctor he knows against sharing an experimental drug with Westerners. In Solzhenitsyn’s original opening, which follows in its first English translation, Volodin has learned that a Soviet spy in New York is about to be given classified information on atomic-bomb technology. An insider, no longer able to deny that he operates within a totalitarian regime, Volodin faces a moral dilemma: should he warn the U.S. Ambassador? TORPEDO The filigreed hands pointed to five minutes past four. The bronze of the clock was lustreless in the dying light of a December day. A tall window looked down on bustling Kuznetsky Most. Maintenance workers trudged doggedly to and fro, scraping up the fresh snow that was already caking and turning brown under the feet of pedestrians. State Counsellor Grade Two Innokentii Volodin surveyed all this unseeingly, lolling against the embrasure and whistling something drawn-out and elusive. His fingertips flipped through the pages of a glossy foreign magazine, but he had no eyes for it. Volodin State Counsellor Grade Two—the diplomatic-service equivalent of lieutenant colonel—was tall and narrow-shouldered, and wore a suit made of a silky material instead of his uniform; he looked more like a well-off young drone than an official of some importance in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was time to switch the lights on or go home, but he stayed where he was. Four o’clock was the end not of the workday but only of its daytime segment. Everyone would now go home, have something to eat, and take a nap; then, at 10 P.M., the thousands and thousands of windows in forty-five All-Union and twenty Union-Republican ministries would light up again. A certain individual, ringed by a dozen fortress walls, could not sleep at night, and he had trained all of official Moscow to stay awake with him until three or four in the morning. Knowing the peculiar nocturnal habits of their lord and master, all sixty-odd ministers kept vigil, like schoolboys awaiting a summons from the headmaster. To fight off sleep, they would call in their deputies, and then the deputy ministers would rouse the department heads; the research officers would erect ladders and swarm over card indexes, the clerks would charge along corridors, and the stenographers would break the points of their pencils. Today was no exception. It was Christmas Eve by the Western calendar, and all the embassies had fallen silent and stopped calling two days earlier, but the ministry would be sitting up through the night just the same. They—the Western diplomats—had two weeks of holiday ahead of them. Trusting babes! Stupid donkeys! The young man’s nervous fingers leafed through the magazine hastily, mechanically, while hot waves of terror welled up inside him, then subsided, leaving him cold. Innokentii flung the magazine away and began pacing the room, shuddering. Should he call or shouldn’t he? Did it have to be now? Would Thursday or Friday be too late over there? Too late . . . There was so little time to think about it, and absolutely nobody to ask for advice! Surely there would be no way of finding out who’d made a call from a phone booth. If he spoke only in Russian? If he didn’t hang around but walked away quickly? Surely they wouldn’t be able to identify a muffled voice over the telephone. It had to be a technical impossibility. In three or four days’ time he would be flying there himself. It would be more logical to wait. More sensible. But it would be too late. Oh, hell! His shoulders, unused to such burdens, hunched in a shiver. It would have been better if he had never found out. Better not to know. He scooped up all the papers on his desk and carried them to the safe. His agitation grew and grew. Innokentii lowered his brow onto the dull-red painted iron of the safe and rested there with closed eyes. Then, suddenly, as though he felt his last chance slipping away from him, without calling for a car, without so much as putting the lid back on his inkwell, Innokentii rushed for the door, locked it behind him, turned in his key to the guard at the end of the hallway, raced down the stairs, passing the usual gold-braided personages, dived into his overcoat, planted his hat on his head, and ran out into the damp twilight. Rapid motion brought him some relief. His low-heeled French shoes, worn fashionably without galoshes, sank into the slush. As he passed the Vorovsky Monument in the ministry courtyard, Innokentii looked up and shuddered. The new building of the Great Lubyanka, which looked out on Furkasov Passage, suddenly acquired an added significance for him. This gray-black nine-story hulk was a battleship, and the eighteen pilasters loomed like gun turrets on its starboard side. And Innokentii’s tiny craft was being helplessly sucked into its path, under the bow of the swift, heavy vessel. Or no: he wasn’t a helpless, captive canoe; he was deliberately heading toward the battleship like a torpedo! He could hold out no longer! He turned right onto Kuznetsky Most. A taxi was about to pull away from the curb. Innokentii grabbed it, and told the driver to head quickly downhill, then turn left, under the newly lit street lamps of the Petrovka. He still couldn’t decide where to make his call from—where he could be sure that no one would be hovering impatiently, distracting him, peering through the door. But if he looked for a single phone booth in some quiet spot he would make himself more conspicuous. Wouldn’t it be better to pick one in the thick of it all, as long as it had soundproof brick or stone walls? And how stupid he had been to chase around in a taxi and make the driver a witness. He dug into his pocket, hoping not to find the fifteen kopecks that he’d need for the call. If he didn’t find them, he could obviously put it off. At the traffic light on Okhotny Ryad, his fingers felt and drew out two fifteen-kopeck pieces simultaneously. So that was that. This seemed to calm him down. Whether it was dangerous or not, he had no alternative. If we live in a constant state of fear, can we remain human? Without intending it, Innokentii now found himself riding along the Mokhovaya, past the Embassy. Fate was taking a hand. He pressed his face against the window, craning his neck, trying unsuccessfully to make out which windows were lit up. They passed the university, and Innokentii motioned to the right. It was as though he were circling his target in order to position his torpedo correctly. They sped up to the Arbat; Innokentii gave the driver two notes, stepped out, and crossed the square, trying to moderate his pace. His throat and his mouth were suffering from the dryness that no drink can relieve. By now the Arbat was all lit up. Before the Khudozhestvenny Cinema there was a long line for “The Ballerina’s Romance.” A faint bluish mist clouded the red “M” above the metro station. A woman with a dark southern complexion was selling little yellow flowers. The doomed man could no longer see his battleship, but his breast was bursting with desperate resolve. Remember, though: not a word in English. Let alone French. Mustn’t leave the smallest clue for the tracker dogs. Innokentii walked on, erect and no longer hurrying. A girl eyed him as he passed. And another one. Very pretty, too. Wish yourself well out of it! How big the world is, and how full of opportunities! But all that’s left for you is this narrow passage. One of the wooden booths outside the station was empty, but seemed to have a broken window. Innokentii walked on, into the station. Here the four booths set in the wall were all occupied. But in the one to the left a rough-looking character, not quite sober, was finishing his call and hanging up the receiver. He smiled at Innokentii and started to say something. Innokentii took his place in the kiosk, carefully pulled the thick-paned door closed, and held it shut with one hand; the other, still gloved, trembled as it dropped a coin into the slot and dialled a number. After several prolonged buzzes, the receiver was lifted at the other end. “Is that the secretariat?” Innokentii asked, trying to disguise his voice. “Yes.” “Please put me through to the Ambassador immediately.” The answer came in very good Russian. “I can’t call the Ambassador. What is your business?” “Give me the chargé, then! Or the military attaché! Please be quick!” There was a pause for thought at the other end. Innokentii put himself in fate’s hands: if the request was denied—let it go at that, don’t try a second time. “Very well, I’m connecting you with the attaché.” He heard the connection being made. Through the thick glass he saw people passing, within inches of the row of phone booths, hurrying, pushing past one another. One person peeled off and stood impatiently waiting his turn outside Innokentii’s booth. Somebody with a thick accent and a well-fed, indolent voice spoke into the telephone: “Hallo. What do you want?” “Is this the military attaché?” Innokentii asked brusquely. “Yes, air attaché,” the voice drawled at the other end. What next? Screening the receiver with his hand, Innokentii spoke in a low voice but urgently. “Mr. Air Attaché! Please write this down and pass it to the Ambassador immediately.” “Just a moment,” the leisurely voice answered. “I’ll call an interpreter.” “I can’t wait!” Innokentii was seething. He had dropped his attempt to disguise his voice. “And I will not talk to any Soviet person! Do not put the receiver down! This is a life-and-death matter for your country! And not only your country! Listen! Within the next few days a Soviet agent called Georgii Koval will pick something up at a shop selling radio parts. The address is—” “I don’t quite understand,” the attaché replied calmly, in halting Russian. He, of course, was sitting on a comfortable sofa, and no one was on his trail. Animated female voices could be heard in the room around him. “Call the Canadian Embassy. They have good Russian speakers there.” The phone-booth floor was burning under Innokentii’s feet, and the black receiver with its heavy steel chain was melting in his hand. But a single foreign word could destroy him! “Listen! Listen!” he cried in despair. “In a few days’ time the Soviet agent Koval will be given important technological information about the production of the atomic bomb, at a radio shop on—” “What? Which avenue?” The attaché sounded surprised. He paused for a moment. “Who are you, anyway? How do I know you’re speaking the truth?” “Do you know what a risk I’m taking?” Innokentii shot back. Somebody seemed to be knocking on the glass behind him. The attaché was silent. Perhaps taking a long puff on his cigarette. “The atomic bomb?” he repeated dubiously. “But who are you? Tell me your name.” There was a muffled click and then dead silence, unbroken by rustling or buzzing. They had been cut off. A BLUNDER There are establishments in which you suddenly come across a dull-red lamp over a door marked “Employees Only.” Or, more currently, it may be an imposing plate-glass sign: “Strictly No Entrance to Unauthorized Persons.” There may even be a grim security guard sitting at a little table and inspecting passes. As always, when confronted with the forbidden, your imagination runs away with you. In reality, the door opens onto another unremarkable hallway, perhaps a bit cleaner. A streak of cheap red carpet, standard government issue, runs down the middle. The parquet floor has been more or less polished. Spittoons are stationed at fairly frequent intervals. But there are no people. There is no movement out of one door and into another. And these doors are all covered with black leather, black leather distended with padding, pinned down by white studs and bearing shiny oval number plates. Even those who work in one such room know less about what goes on in the room next door than they do about the gossip of the day on the island of Madagascar. On the same gloomy frost-free December evening, in the building of the Moscow Central Automatic Telephone Exchange, on one of those forbidden hallways and in one of those inaccessible rooms, known to the superintendent of the building as Room 194 and to Department XI of the 6th Administration of the Ministry of State Security as Post A-1, two lieutenants were on duty. Not in uniform, however: they could enter and leave the telephone exchange with greater anonymity in civilian dress. One wall of the room was occupied by a switchboard and an acoustic apparatus—black plastic and shiny metal. A long list of instructions, on dingy paper, hung on the other. These instructions anticipated and warned against every imaginable breach of or departure from routine in monitoring and recording calls to and from the U.S. Embassy, stipulating that two persons should be on duty at all times, one listening in continuously, never removing the headphones, with the other never leaving the room except to go to the toilet, and that the two men should alternate duties at half-hour intervals. If you followed these instructions, mistakes would be impossible. But such is the fatal incompatibility of officialdom’s perfectionism with man’s pitiful imperfection that these instructions had for once been disobeyed. Not because the men on duty were novices but because they were experienced enough to know that nothing special ever happened, least of all on the Western Christmas Eve. One of them, the flat-nosed Lieutenant Tyukin, knew that he would be asked in his politics class the following Monday: Who are “the friends of the people” and how do they fight against the social democrats? Why did we have to break with the Mensheviks at the Second Congress, and why were we right to do so? Why did we reunite at the Fifth Congress, again acting correctly, then at the Sixth Congress again go our separate ways, yet again correctly? Tyukin wouldn’t have dreamed of starting his reading on a Saturday, when he had little hope of memorizing anything, except that after duty on Sunday he and his sister’s husband intended to do some serious drinking. He would never be able to take in any of that crap with a hangover on Monday morning, and the Party organizer had already rebuked him and threatened to bring him before the Party bureau. The important thing was not answering in class but being able to present a written summary. Tyukin hadn’t been able to find time that week, and had been putting it off all day, but now he had asked his colleague to keep working for a while and had made himself comfortable in a corner by the light of a desk lamp, and started copying into his exercise book selected passages from the “Short Course.” The two men hadn’t yet got around to switching on the overhead light. The auxiliary lamp by the tape recorders was on. Kuleshov, a curly-haired lieutenant with a chubby chin, sat with his headphones on, feeling bored. The Embassy had phoned in its shopping orders in the morning, and from lunchtime onward seemed to have fallen asleep. There hadn’t been a single call. After sitting like this for some time, Kuleshov decided to take a look at the sores on his left leg. They kept breaking out again and again for unknown reasons. The sores had been dressed with “brilliant green,” zinc ointment, and a streptocidal preparation, but instead of healing they had spread under the scabs. The pain had begun to make walking uncomfortable. The M.G.B. clinic had scheduled an appointment for him with a professor. Kuleshov had recently been given a new flat, and his wife was expecting a child. And now these ulcers were poisoning what should have been a comfortable life. Kuleshov removed the tight headphones, which pressed on his ears, moved to a spot in the light, rolled up the left leg of his trousers and his long underwear, and began cautiously feeling and picking at the edges of the scabs. Dark pus oozed out under the pressure of his fingers. The pain made his head spin and blotted out all other thoughts. For the first time the idea suddenly came to him that perhaps these were not just sores but . . . he tried to remember a terrible word he had heard somewhere: gangrene? . . . And . . . what was that other thing? So he did not immediately notice the bobbins start noiselessly spinning as the tape recorder automatically switched itself on. Without covering up his bare leg, Kuleshov reached for the headphones, put one ear to them, and heard: “How do I know you’re speaking the truth?” “Do you know what a risk I’m taking?” “The atomic bomb? But who are you? Tell me your name.” The atomic bomb!!! Obeying an impulse as instinctive as that of a man who grabs the nearest object to break his fall, Kuleshov tore the plug out of the switchboard, disconnecting the two telephones—and only then realized that, contrary to instructions, he had not intercepted the caller’s number. The first thing he did was look over his shoulder. Tyukin was scribbling his summary and had eyes for nothing else. Tyukin was a friend, but Kuleshov had been warned to keep an eye on him, which meant that Tyukin had received similar instructions. As Kuleshov turned the rewind knob of the recorder, and plugged the spare recorder into the Embassy loop, he thought at first of erasing the recorded message to conceal his blunder. But he remembered at once that his chief had often said that the work of their post was duplicated by automatic recording in another place, and he dropped that silly idea. Of course the recording was duplicated, and for suppressing a conversation like that you’d be shot! The tape had rewound. He turned the play knob. The criminal was in a great hurry and very agitated. Where could he have been speaking from? Obviously not from a private apartment. And hardly from his place of work. It was always from public phone booths that people tried to get through to embassies. Opening his directory of phone-booth numbers, Kuleshov hurriedly dialled a telephone on the steps at the entrance to the Sokolniki metro station. “Genka! Genka!” he croaked. “Emergency! Call the operations room! They may still be able to catch him!”
Carnival, Las Tablas I enjoyed Carnival in the beginning. Back when I started going, I was like everyone else—that one weekend in February was all I looked forward to. But after going every year for the past eight years, since I was sixteen, and after going to Las Tablas, of all places, the bright and pulsing center of Carnival in Panama, after seeing thousands of people crammed into a few narrow streets and a town square, and being doused by water often enough that I slept in wet clothes, and being awakened by thumping tambourines, and dancing to the comparsas as they paraded down the streets alongside the elaborately attired queens, and baking in the sun, and feeding my flesh to the mosquitoes, and coming home four days later with my whole body sore, and realizing when someone asked if I’d had a good time at Carnival that I could hardly remember one thing that had happened the whole long weekend—after all of that, I’d had enough. Last night, though, I changed my mind. I was scrubbing makeup off one of my work blouses in the laundry tub when I overheard my mother, on the phone, bragging to a friend that my father had thrown a big party for her birthday a week ago, that he had rented out the whole casino at the Caesar Park and hired dancers with feathers on their heads to bring her a cake—when I heard her lie for him—and I decided maybe I wasn’t so over Carnival after all. At work today, I ask the girl at the desk next to mine whether there’s room on the bus she’s taking to Carnival. She tells me that the guy who rented the bus sold all the seats in the first week. But she knows another guy, who is leaving for Chitré after work on Friday and who might have room in his car. He has a Land Rover, she explains, and gives me his number. I call him, but his car is full, too. I go through a whole list of phone numbers, with no success. I spend my days answering phones in a bank lobby, so no one suspects that I’m doing anything but work. Finally, at home in the evening, I ask my sister Yesenia if I can ride with her. “I promised a girl at school she could borrow my car. So Chato’s driving,” she says. “O.K.” She raises her eyebrows at me. “What? Do I need to get permission from Chato?” I am on my bed in a camisole and pajama shorts, the nubby bedspread rough under my thighs. Yesenia is standing in front of the dresser in our bedroom where we both have our makeup and lotions and hair bands laid out. “Have you seen my green eyeshadow, Katia?” she asks. “Can I go with you or not?” “It was right here the other day. Did I already pack it?” “Yesenia.” This is her first year going to Carnival. Most people start when they’re teen-agers—sixteen, eighteen. I invited her to go with me plenty of times. But Yesenia didn’t want to unless she could go with a boyfriend. She maintains a pretty constant stream of guys, ones who just drift in and out, but she’s never had a true boyfriend during Carnival until now. Who knows why, but about two months ago she decided that Chato was the one she was going to hang on to. It’s no secret that Chato’s not my favorite. He has a decent enough job doing network stuff for Cable & Wireless. But almost every time I see him he is trying to talk my mother into buying a cell phone. Or he’s lying on our couch, watching fútbol. He keeps his fingernails long, because he plays the guitar. And he drinks too much, which once resulted in his tearing a gash down Yesenia’s arm when, she says, he stumbled and caught his nail on her skin. But the moment that turned me off Chato forever was when he walked into Yesenia’s and my bedroom one day and plopped himself on her bed. “I’m reading,” I told him, tapping my finger against my open book. He nodded, then leaned down and sniffed Yesenia’s pillow. He stretched out on her bed, his hands clasped behind his head. I asked him what he was doing. He scooted down to the middle of her mattress, lifted the bedspread, and smelled her sheets, right where her coño would have lain all night. As far as Carnival goes, Chato believes there is hardly any point to it if he is expected to stay loyal to one girl. He kept telling Yesenia that, and each time she just laughed: “Oh, Chato, you’re such a clown.” But somehow last week she got him to agree to it. “Fine. Yes. You can ride with us. But you can’t complain from the back seat the whole drive there.” “You’re going to Las Tablas?” “Of course. And I intend to have a good time. So don’t ruin it for me.” Yesenia and I have four years between us. Which is an odd way to say it, I guess, because almost from the second she was born there was nothing—not years, not other people, not a wisp of air to breathe—that came between us. In the beginning, I hovered over her while she slept in the crib that used to be mine, her baby hair sticking up like wings off her head; I brought my mother talcum powder to sprinkle in her diaper; I sat cross-legged on the couch and watched cartoons while I held her, heavy as a sack, in my little arms. As soon as Yesenia outgrew her crib, we shared a room—two twin beds against opposite walls, a small glass-topped nightstand in between. We’d fall asleep talking to each other, and in the mornings she’d jump on my bed until, with my entire body bouncing, I opened my eyes to the sight of her smiling, her feet landing rhythmically on either side of me again and again. Every day after school, Yesenia and I would sit at the kitchen table and do our homework, Yesenia always needling me to let her look at my old tests and notes from the classes I’d already been through, me poking her with my foot under the table. Every party we went to ended up with the two of us, huddled somewhere in a corner, gossiping and laughing to ourselves. Every decision we made required a consultation. Every everything in our lives, it seemed, had to do with each other. Four months ago, all that changed. My father lost his job and started spending his days at the horse track, losing my mother’s money, and coming home only occasionally. In the past month, I have seen him twice. Yesenia is furious with me because I am making such a big deal about it. When he does come home, I fight with him, challenging him to tell me where he’s been. I yell at my mother, too, for taking his shit. Yesenia said once, “We all know you’re the tough one, Katia. What was it Mami said? Skin like armor. You don’t have to prove it every chance you get.” But I am just as angry at Yesenia for acting as if there were nothing more going on than a cloud passing overhead, momentarily blotting out the sun. What Yesenia doesn’t know is that for months I have been sleeping in fits and starts, straining all night for the sound of my father arriving home. I wait for the creak of the wooden door as it opens and the clang of the exterior metal door as it settles shut. I wait for the sound of my father’s footsteps, his worn soles trudging across the linoleum floor. I wait for the wall that my parents’ bedroom shares with ours to vibrate a little as he closes the door to their room. I wait, tense in the fuzzy heat, while Yesenia sleeps, for all of this to happen, even though it hardly ever does. Recently, my mother told me that when she and my father were first married he was embarrassed to let her fold his laundered underwear. She was sitting on the edge of her bed, rubbing cream on her hands. “It didn’t make any sense,” she said thoughtfully. “I already touched his underwear when I washed them and again when I hung them on the line. But folding! And of course I touched them when they had nothing to do with the laundry.” She shook her head. “There are a lot of things about him that don’t make sense lately, no?” She looked so tired, her face scrubbed clean, her shapeless nightgown hanging on her like a tent. I started to get into bed next to her, to fill my father’s side. My mother said, “What are you doing?” “I was going to sleep with you.” “No, no, no,” she said, shooing me out. “What if he comes home? I want to leave a space. Besides,” she said, squirming under the sheet, “Yesenia would miss you, wouldn’t she?” Yesenia agreed that she and Chato would pick me up at work. I told her I didn’t want to be at home any more than I had to be. She huffed at that and said, “I really don’t know what your problem is, Katia.” I am sitting in the air-conditioning, my shoes kicked off under my desk, rubbing my nyloned feet together, when I hear a horn honking. Most everyone is gone already. At the sound of the honk, I slide my feet back into my black pumps, grab my bag, and walk out. I see Chato through the driver’s-side window of his little Toyota Tercel. His long hair is tucked behind his ears, and he’s angling the rearview mirror so that he can watch while he picks at something in his teeth. Two thin mattresses are roped to the top of the car. I open the door and get in behind him. My sister turns back. “Are you ready?” she asks. Her cheeks are flushed, and I wonder if they were just kissing. “I guess so.” Chato rights the mirror. “Where’s your mattress?” he asks. “At my house,” I say, placing my bag on the seat beside me. He sighs. “Why did you ask us to pick you up here if we have to go to your house anyway?” This is the plight of people who don’t rent a house or reserve a room: they bring camping mattresses or else take the seat cushions from their buses so that when night rolls around they have a place to sleep. Drop the mattress on the ground and good luck. “I’ll be fine,” I tell him. I watch Chato steal a glimpse at Yesenia, as if to say, Your sister better not turn into a burden for us. Yesenia shrugs. “Look,” I say, “we have two mattresses. You and Yesenia can share one, right? Maybe I can use the other.” “The hell if I’m sharing my mattress,” Chato says. Yesenia just looks out the window. “Fine. I’ll figure it out.” I first went to Carnival with Rogelio Penedes, a guy I dated in high school. He thought the two of us would make it until forever, but I had no illusions. I liked him enough to pass the time with, but I knew he was just one guy—my present but not my future. He stole his papi’s car so that he could drive us to Las Tablas. We stopped at the super on the way out of the city to buy junk food and alcohol and ice, which we dropped by the bagful into a gigantic cooler that took up almost the entire trunk. The whole drive there, he was munching on Pringles and pork rinds and telling me how I was his one and only, how this was going to be the sort of weekend we would tell our kids about. The world outside the car window looked the way it would look every year afterward on the way to Carnival: dense greenery growing thicker and thicker as we drove farther from the city, every once in a while a house with a tin roof visible among the trees, cars speeding by on tires so small they looked like temporary spares, pebbled curbs, dogs strolling in the thick sunlight, an outdoor roadside restaurant with its name—Pollos Papi—painted in block letters on the concrete overhang. By the time we were passing the same scenery on the way home, Rogelio and I had split up. He got tragically drunk, the way you were supposed to at Carnival, but he hooked up with this other girl, and even though I had only liked him O.K. to begin with, he was still my boyfriend and he had still cheated. My face had never been much to speak of, but my body—well, at sixteen I looked good. So I spent the weekend running under the spray of the giant hoses, keeping myself soaked, my shirt clinging to me, my bra translucent underneath, my shorts plastered around my thighs, and I paraded in front of Rogelio to remind him of what he had lost. I rode home wet, too, and kept flicking my hair over my shoulders, letting the drops spray onto him. He blasted the air-conditioning to freeze me. By the time he returned the car to his papi, he was in trouble not only for taking it but for turning the upholstery into a sopping mess. He told me once in the hallway at school, in a moment of remorse, that there was still a water-stain outline of me on the car seat. “The way there’s still an imprint of you in my heart,” he said. “It will fade,” I said. Six hours of traffic and almost no conversation later, Chato announces that we’re there. At the start of the trip, Yesenia pleaded with Chato to talk to her. “Amorcito,” she said, “do you want to tell me about work?” And, “I’m getting bored.” And, “Chato, come on. It’s going to be a long drive.” Each time, Chato would say something like “Why don’t you put on some lipstick?” and turn the radio up a little more. Eventually, the radio got loud enough that Yesenia had trouble talking over it. She looked back at me once and I waved brightly, but she made a disgusted face and turned away. As soon as Chato switches off the engine, I drag my bag across the seat and get out. We are parked on a side street, but I can hear the swell of voices. “Holy shit,” Chato says. “I forgot you were wearing that.” I still have on my work clothes—black pumps, black skirt, nylons, tan V-neck sweater with a white button-down blouse underneath. My hair is pulled into a tight ponytail, the sides gelled to fend off frizz. I almost never wear it down. “I’m going to change,” I say, though what I brought is not much better than what I have on. Yesenia is in an aqua-blue bathing suit, stretch denim shorts, a brown halter top, and huge wedge sandals that make her almost as tall as Chato and definitely taller than me. Yesterday, after work, she spent two hours at the beauty salon, getting waxed. Over dinner last night, our mother asked her about the bikini wax—how much it cost and how much it hurt—because, she said, she was thinking of getting one herself. “Why?” I asked, even though I knew why. “It’s the little things, Katia. You never know.” “A bikini wax is not going to make Papi a good guy again,” I said, sawing at my meat. Yesenia kicked me hard in the shin under the table and started in on all the particulars about waxing while my mother listened with rapt attention. I start to walk away. “Where are you going?” Yesenia calls. “I’m going to find a bathroom.” “When will we see you again?” “You’re driving me home, right?” “Yeah, the car will be here all weekend,” Chato says. He pulls a rubber band from around his wrist and gathers his hair in it. Then he walks to the trunk and pulls out his guitar case. “I’ll meet you here on Tuesday, then. What time?” “Five o’clock should be good,” Chato says. I spend Friday night and all day Saturday in a field about a mile from town, as far from Carnival as I can manage. I sleep on the ground, in the open air, using my bag as a pillow. A farmhouse is visible in the distance, but, aside from a few grazing cows during the day and a handful of Carnival-goers at night, I’m by myself. I keep thinking this: The last four months isn’t the whole truth. When I was a kid, my father would sit on the floor and build block towers with me, and nap in the hammock out back with me curled against him like a caterpillar, and take me on walks around the neighborhood. He was never quite that way with Yesenia. Because I was the firstborn—the first one to steal his heart, he once said. When Yesenia came home from the hospital, I wanted to feel her soft belly instead of pressing up against my father’s, and I was more interested in having her grip my finger than I was in holding my father’s hand. Little by little, he grew more distant. He sat sullenly in front of the TV, or napped on his bed with the curtains drawn, or smoked with his body wedged in the half-open door that led to the laundry line out back. By the time we were guests at my cousins’ quinceañeras, my father had turned into the person who headed for the bar as soon as he got there. He would dance a song or two with me, or once in a while with Yesenia, but mostly he would settle into a chair on the fringe of the festivities and keep to himself. A year ago, he stopped parking his car at our house. Maybe it was mathematics. There were four people in our house. There were three cars. There were two spaces. Maybe it’s just that there wasn’t enough room. For as long as I could remember, my father had parked his car with the two left tires on the strip of grass between our house and the sidewalk and the two right tires on the street, just beside the curb. His car was a piece of junk, but he parked it there, straddling the sidewalk, because our street is narrow and he didn’t want it to get hit. One day, I came home and his car was nowhere to be seen. My mother told me that he was paying our neighbor, Señora Urrutia, to let him park it in her driveway, since she lived alone, and had plenty of space. As soon as my mother said that, my stomach dropped. He hadn’t left us yet, but he would. I guess I knew that. In the field now, I turn when I hear the overgrown grass around me rasping. Over my shoulder I see a lanky young guy walking in my direction. “Do you have a cigarette?” he asks. “Sorry.” He pulls a pack from his pocket and offers it to me, the cellophane wrapping crackling under his thumb. “Do you want one?” I shake my head. He plops down next to me and lights up. He has a long face and close-cropped hair, and he squints each time he takes a drag. “What are you thinking about?” he asks. “Look, I’m not interested,” I say. He nods. “You already have a guy.” “I’m just not interested.” He sucks on his cigarette but doesn’t move. “What are you doing way out here?” “I could ask you the same.” “I needed a break from the scene back there. Carnival is kicking it this year, but it’s crazier than ever. I just went walking.” Darkness is falling, ready to smother the day. I can feel him waiting for me to keep the conversation going. Finally, I say, “I was thinking about my father.” “What about him?” “Do you know that he forgot my mother’s birthday this year?” “No, I didn’t know.” I smile despite myself. Then, for no good reason, I tell him about the parking space. “It doesn’t mean anything,” he says. He tosses his cigarette out in front of him, watching as it travels in an arc like a meteor. “That’s what you want me to say, right?” “You can say whatever you want.” “In that case, you’re really pretty.” He smiles. “That isn’t what you meant, is it?” I turn away sharply and squeeze my eyes shut. “You’re sure you don’t want one?” he asks. I know he’s holding out the cigarettes. But I stay as still and as quiet as I can, until he finally leaves. On Sunday, after another night with the cows, I walk back into Las Tablas. It looks like it always looks this time of year: stuffed with people, silk banners that say either “Calle Abajo” or “Calle Arriba” hanging from second-floor balconies, venders on street corners, paper remnants of firecrackers that were set off the night before scattered on the ground like leaves. I stop at a stand where an old Chinese man is selling chicken. He’s sitting on a folding chair behind a table with two rotisserie cookers turning slowly behind him. I buy a chicken leg for ten cents. I’m standing on the sidelines, watching a pickup truck with a brass band on its flatbed lumber down the street and eating my chicken when Yesenia comes running in my direction and plants herself in front of me. “You have real nerve,” she says. “What did I do?” She’s wearing the same thing as the last time I saw her, only she’s soaking wet. She’s also drunk. “ ‘What did I do? What did I do?’ ” she says mockingly. “It’s not like you know everything, Katia. You think you’re so much better than me and Mami. You think you have everything figured out and that we’re such fools.” “I don’t think you’re a fool.” Yesenia crosses her arms and raises her eyebrows. Well, if she really wants to get into it: “I do think it’s foolish, though, ignoring everything that’s going on,” I say. “You’re just letting him get away with it.” “Ha! That’s what Chato told me you’d say.” “You knew I thought that.” “Did you ever—” Her ankle gives and she stumbles on her wedge heels for a second before steadying herself. “Did you ever think that maybe it’s you who is making everything worse? I mean, if I were Papi, I wouldn’t exactly want to come home if I knew someone was waiting there to yell at me every time I did.” “I wouldn’t yell at him if he started coming home.” “But you do! You yell at him every time.” “If he started being there regularly, not just once every few weeks, it would be different.” “But how is he ever going to know that? I mean, how would he ever find that out if he can’t bring himself to come home because of all your carrying on?” “You think I’m the reason he’s not coming home more?” “Maybe.” “You think I’m the reason Papi left us?” She crosses her arms and blinks drowsily. “It’s a possibility.” “Go away,” I say. She tuts. “Just like with Papi. That’s the same thing you do to him.” “Yesenia, you’re drunk. This is stupid.” “No, I was thinking about this on the ride here, when I was perfectly sober. I think you are the reason Papi won’t come back to us.” She waits. When I don’t respond, she says, “I talked to Chato about it and he agrees with me.” “Chato probably wasn’t even listening to you when you said all this. He never listens to you—in case you had the wrong idea about that, too.” No one is paying the least bit of attention to us. People get into fights all the time during Carnival. Girls fighting over guys. People fighting for space. Certain Panama City gangs come to Las Tablas just looking for an excuse to start something. And now Yesenia and I, yelling at each other while a parade glides by. Yesenia grabs my wrist and squeezes. “You don’t know anything about Chato,” she says. “Really? I know he’s a jerk. He’s always been a jerk. You would know that if you weren’t so desperate to have a boyfriend.” I’m practically hissing at her now, pointing my chicken bone in her face. Yesenia recoils a bit. “Well, excuse me if it seems like I always need a guy, but I’ve never had Papi, like you do. Like you always have.” It takes me a second, but I say, “Neither of us has him now, anyway.” “Your fault, not mine.” “Yesenia! It’s not my fault that Papi is being a jerk. Just like Chato is a jerk,” I add. I can’t help it. She gives my arm a violent tug and tightens her grip on my wrist. I can smell the alcohol on her breath worming through the air as she starts to speak, first in a whisper: “You stay the fuck away from me.” Then, “You stay the goddam fuck away from me!” Immediately, I don’t know why or where from, tears spring to my eyes. She’s just drunk, I keep telling myself as I watch her stagger away. She’s just drunk. I stand still for a few minutes, the colors of the Carnival queens blurry through my tears. When a guy walks by with a cart of Dixie cups filled with shots of rum, I take one. Then I chase after him down the sidelines of the parade and take another. When a bubble of people looses itself from the crowd and lurches in a big lump into the street, I go with them. And when one of the decorated cars in the parade honks and I turn to see a guy beckoning me up, I take his hands and climb clumsily onto the hood of the car. Everyone is cheering and it’s not long before the car drives through a spray of water from one of the cistern trucks positioned along the street. I’m drenched and I think to myself, Here we go. Even though I came to get away, here I am again in the middle of Carnival. I’m dancing on the hood of a car in a white knee-length skirt and a lavender T-shirt, my black bathing suit underneath, my wet hair tapping my back like a paddle as I move. The rum kicks in a little more. The guy driving the car is whooping at me as I bend my knees a little, feeling the beat as if I were rolling a hula hoop around my waist, my raised arms moving from side to side. People in the crowd are squirting water guns and tossing confetti, which sticks to me like stamps. The smell of incense and alcohol hangs in the air. I go for about a block before I see the guy, the one from last night. He has his shirt tied around his waist and is eating an ice-cream cone. I jump off the car and half land on him. He stumbles a little and then, when he sees it’s me, stands still. We’re close enough that our stomachs are almost touching. His breath smells like strawberry. “Where did you get that?” I ask, pointing to the ice cream. He steps back and holds it in front of me. “You want some?” When I take too long to answer, he licks it. “I want some,” I decide. He offers me the cone, but I push it aside, take his face in my hands, and kiss him. His milky lips stick lightly to mine. “I just wanted a taste,” I say, still holding him, the stubble on his jaw rough under my palms. Later, at the edge of the field, walking in a graceless teeter before passing out, I remember the first night my father didn’t come home. Yesenia shook me awake in my bed after midnight and said, “Papi isn’t here.” With tears in her eyes and the keys already in her hand, she convinced me to ride around in the car with her, searching for him. “What if something’s happened?” she kept whispering, half to me and half to herself. I was sitting in the passenger seat, in my pajamas, while my sister yanked the car through its gears and we rumbled through the eerily quiet city streets. As we peered intently through the windshield and the side windows for a glimpse of him, she said, “Papi has that funny little mustache comb.” The sound of her trembling voice cut through the dark. I said, “I know, the one he keeps on the sink behind the faucet.” “And he always wears the same kind of loafers.” “Until the soles crack and then he gets a new pair of the same kind.” She turned down side streets and idled the car at red lights. “His face is always oily when I kiss him. Not that I kiss him very often. He kisses you more. When he gets home or whatever. He kisses your cheek right away.” “He doesn’t do it that much anymore.” A few seconds passed before she picked up again. “He always smells like cologne, too.” We went on like this, trading impressions, until finally we pulled back into our driveway, having found no trace of him. Yesenia sobbed, her hands still gripping the steering wheel even after she had turned the car off. “I know something awful has happened to him,” she said. “I know it.” The following night, while my mother, Yesenia, and I sat silently at the kitchen table, my father breezed in as though nothing had happened and started making his customary Scotch-and-water. Yesenia started crying again and rushed to wrap her arms around him. “What is this?” he asked innocently. “Where have you been?” I said. My relief gave way under the weight of sudden anger. “Out,” he said, and took a sip of his drink. My mother didn’t say a word. She just looked at her hands clasped on the table. “We were worried,” Yesenia said. “There was no need.” “You didn’t come home last night,” I pointed out. He took another sip of his Scotch before setting it on the counter and opening the refrigerator. His eyes were bloodshot, his shirt rumpled and untucked. I stood up and poured his drink down the drain. The ice cubes skated haphazardly in the basin. Yesenia frowned at me. “I’ll make you another,” she said, as our father turned to see what I had done. I grabbed the Scotch before she could reach it and poured the whole bottle down the drain. “What are you doing?” Yesenia wailed. “He doesn’t deserve it,” I said. I turned to my father and said, “You don’t deserve it.” “Katia, please,” he said softly. “Please what?” “I was gone for one night. That’s all. I’m here now.” I knew it was the start of something, though. I’d heard the stories of friends’ fathers leaving. I shook my head. “Don’t do this to us.” “Listen,” he said, his voice hardening. “You don’t need to accuse me of anything. I’m here now. End of story.” He breathed out steadily through his nose. Yesenia didn’t talk to me after we went to bed that night. She drew the covers over her head and wouldn’t even look my way. I wake to the sound of my name being called over and over. My head is throbbing and I’ve drooled enough to make the pat of dirt under my face soften into mud. There are other people, like freckles, all over the field now, people like us who must have waited too long to get a hotel room within fifty miles of Las Tablas. I squint through the dazzling morning sun and try to look in the direction the sound is coming from. Slowly, my eyes focus on Yesenia, running in a zigzag, stumbling in the loose soil. I stand up and call to her. She pauses—she’s holding both hands against one side of her face—then starts toward me, screaming my name louder now and repeating, “Oh, my God, oh, my God.” When she gets close enough I see blood seeping through her fingers. She has her head tilted so that the blood lands on the ground with soft taps, like the patter of rain. “What happened?” “Katia,” is all she says, gasping. I try to pry her hands from her face, but she holds them firm. “Yesenia, what happened? You have to tell me.” “Chato,” she says. “What did he do? Does it hurt?” She says nothing. She’s just standing in front of me barefoot, blood oozing from her face. “Let me see it.” “No.” I take a deep breath and pick up my bag. “Then we have to take you to a doctor.” I wonder how she found me way out here. She might have been running around screaming my name for hours. I start walking to find a medical station—temporary ones are set up for Carnival—and she follows me, as I knew she would, as I wanted her to. “What the hell did he do to you?” I turn back once to ask. But she just shakes her head and holds her cheek until we make it to a doctor. Yesenia gets seven stitches in a little horseshoe shape on her face. I’m allowed to watch, but when the procedure is over, while Yesenia is getting instructions from the nurse on how to tend the wound, the doctor leads me outside. I ask him what happened. This whole time, I’ve been imagining that Chato thrust something at her—a branch, a fork—and that it broke the skin. Or that they got into a fight and he slapped her, one of his ragged nails catching her flesh. The doctor says, “She was bitten. It’s quite clear that it was a human bite. It could have been worse. The person who bit your sister—his or her teeth never clenched together fully. If they had, she might have lost a small piece of her face.” As soon as Yesenia comes out, I tell her I’m taking her home. “We’ll find a taxi,” I say. Who knows what a four-hour taxi ride will cost, but we have to get out of here. Yesenia has a square of gauze taped to the side of her face like a miniature opaque window. Otherwise, she looks O.K. Tired, but O.K. “Wait,” she says, and starts riffling through the tiny purse slung across her body. “I have the keys to Chato’s car,” she says, dangling them in the air. “Chato made me hold onto them. He didn’t want anything in his pockets.” As soon as she says his name, she nearly starts crying. Are you going to tell me what he did? I want to say, and, in the next second, You’re better off without him. But I say neither. Instead, I hug her. Her head falls on my shoulder and she lets me hold her, my hands against her bare back, feeling the quick crescendo of inhalations as my sister sobs in my arms. Except for a guitar pick hanging from the rearview mirror which knocks against the windshield every time we hit a pothole, it’s quiet inside the car as we start toward home. We were quiet the whole ride here, but now the silence is different, the timbre one of tentative forgiveness. Once, I remember kissing that guy, whoever he was, his strawberry lips, and the thought of it ignites a smile that sticks with me for a few kilometres. We stop for food at a thatch-covered restaurant with outdoor tables, where we order tomato salads and fried corn cakes and where the flies land on our water glasses every few seconds, even though we shoo them absent-mindedly. “Does it hurt?” I ask Yesenia at the table. I’ve resolved not to ask her more than that. If she wants to, she’ll tell me what happened. “It’s still numb,” she says. I nod, and we keep eating. For dessert, we each get a coconut Popsicle to eat in the car. A few hours later, we arrive back in the city. We’re stopped at a light when I think I see our father. “Look,” I say to Yesenia, and I point to a man carrying an armful of pink carnations, snaking through the stopped cars. “Papi,” she gasps. I wind down the window and whistle. As he walks over, something bobs in my throat. I glance at the stoplight, which is still red. I can’t decide whether I want it to stay that way or to turn. “Jovencita,” he says, when he’s close enough. As soon as he speaks, as soon as I look at him again, I know it’s not my father. I shake my head. “Three dollars for the whole bouquet,” he says. It’s uncanny, though, how alike they look. “I’m sorry,” I say, and start to close the window. Then, from over my shoulder, I hear Yesenia shout, “We miss you!” The man wipes his nose with his hand and repeats his offer. The light turns, and, the window still half open, I press my foot to the gas, leaving the man in the middle of the street. “It wasn’t him,” I say, even though I know she knows. She knows as well as I do that our father is lost to us, that he’s not coming back. Yesenia and I have been fighting from different corners, but we’re in the same ring. “We miss you,” Yesenia says once more, quietly this time, to the dashboard. I put my hand on her knee and navigate toward home. 
An Afternoon Someone had left a comic paper on the seat near where he sat and he read the strips while he waited. All the way to the bus station he had hurried because he liked being early for things. He liked to take his time, to settle himself, and he did so now. He knew she’d come. Jasmin knew he was going to be different, no way he couldn’t be; no way he’d be wearing a baseball cap backward over a No. 1 cut, or be gawky like Lukie Giggs, or make the clucking noise that Darren Finn made when he was trying to get a word out. She couldn’t have guessed, all she knew was he wouldn’t be like them. Could be he’d put you in mind of the Raw Deal drummer, whatever his name was, or of Al in “Doc Martin.” But the boy at the bus station wasn’t like either. And he wasn’t a boy, not for a minute. He was the only person waiting who was alone, apart from herself, and he didn’t seem interested in the announcements about which buses were arriving or about to go. He didn’t look up when people came in. He hadn’t glanced once in her direction. In the end, if nothing happened, Jasmin knew she would have to be brazen. She called it that to herself because it was what it amounted to, because you didn’t get anywhere if you weren’t. All your life you’d be carrying teas to the lorrymen in the diner, wiping down the tables and clearing away plastic plates, doing yourself an injury because you were soaking up the lorrymen’s cigarette smoke. “Now, you don’t be brazen, Angie,” her mother used to scold her when she was no more than five or six and used to reach up for the cooking dates or a chocolate bar in the Pricerite, opening whatever it was before her mother saw. “You carry that to a woman doing the shelves. You say a mistake, you tell her that. Brazen you are,” her mother always ended up. “You just watch it, girl.” She kept quiet herself. She never approached a woman who was arranging the shelves, just put whatever she’d taken behind the cornflakes or the kitchen rolls. Jasmin was her own choice of name, since she’d always detested Angie and considered it common when she was older. “Oh, la-di-da!” her mother’s riposte had been to this further evidence of brazenness. “Listen to our madam!” she would urge Holby, trying to draw the husband she had now into it, but Holby had become fly about things like that, having learned a lesson when he’d been drawn into a no-go marriage. It wasn’t even the way you spelled it, her mother witheringly commented; no “e” at the end was your bloody Muslim way. But when her mother wasn’t there Holby said all that was a load of rubbish. “You spell your name like it suits you,” he advised. “You stick to how you want it.” Her mother was a violent woman, Jasmin considered, and knew that Holby did, too. “Excuse me,” she said, crossing to where the man was waiting. “I’m Jasmin.” He smiled at her. He had a peaky face, his teeth crowded at the front, light-colored hair left long. He was wearing flannel trousers and a jacket, and that surprised her. A kind of speckled navy blue the jacket was, with a gray tie. And shoes, not trainers—all very tidy. What surprised her more than anything was that he could have been mid-thirties, maybe a few years older. From his voice on the chat line, she’d thought more like nineteen. “You fancy a coffee, Jasmin?” he said. She felt excited when he spoke. The first time, on the chat line, she’d felt it when he’d called her Jasmin. Then again yesterday, when he’d said why don’t they meet up? “Yeah, sure,” she said. All the time he kept his smile going. He was the happy sort, he’d told her on the chat line, not the first time, maybe the third or fourth. He’d asked her if she was the happy sort herself and she’d said yes, even though she knew she wasn’t. Droopy was what she was, she’d heard her mother saying when Holby first came to live in the house; and later on, when her mother wasn’t there, Holby asked her what the trouble was and she said nothing. “Missing your dad?” Holby suggested. Seven she’d been then. “You like to go in here?” the man suggested when they came to a McDonald’s. “You all right with a McDonald’s, Jasmin?” Just coffee, she said when he offered her a burger, and he said he’d bring it to her. Her father had gone when he found out her mother was going with Holby. Her mother said she didn’t care, but six months later she made Holby marry her, because she’d been caught, she maintained, having not been married to Jasmin’s father. “I like a McDonald’s,” the man said, coming with the coffee. He was smiling again, and she wondered if he had smiled all the time at the counter. She didn’t know his name. Three weeks ago she’d first heard his voice on the chat line. “I’m Jasmin,” she’d said, expecting him to say his name also, but he hadn’t. “I could nearly tell your age,” he said now. “From talking to you I nearly could.” “Sixteen.” “I thought sixteen.” They sat at the counter that ran along the window. People on the pavement outside were in a hurry, jostling one another, no cars or buses allowed in this street. “You’re pretty,” he said. “You’re pretty, Jasmin.” She wasn’t really. She couldn’t be called pretty, but he said it anyway, and he wondered if there was a similar flattery he would particularly enjoy himself. While they watched the people on the street he thought about that, imagining the baby voice in which she gabbled her words saying something like he knew his way around, or saying he had an easy way with him. “You think I’d be younger?” he asked her. “Yeah, maybe.” She gave a little shrug, her thin shoulders jerking rapidly up and down. The red anorak she wore wasn’t grubby but had a faded, washed-out look. Other girls would have thrown it away. “I like your charm,” he said, and pointed because she didn’t know he meant the brooch that was pinned to the flimsy pink material of her dress. Her chest was flat and he could have said he liked that, too, because it was the truth. But the truth didn’t always do, as he had long ago learned, and he smiled instead. Her bare, pale legs were like twigs stripped of their bark and he remembered how he used to do that, long ago, too. Her shoes were pinkish, high-heeled. “It’s nothing,” she said, referring to her brooch. She shrugged in the same jerky way again, a spasm it seemed almost, although he knew it wasn’t. “A fish,” she said. “It’s meant to be a fish.” “It’s beautiful, Jasmin.” “Holby gave it to me.” “Who’s Holby, then?” “My mother got married to him.” “Your father, is this?” “Bloody not.” He smiled. In one of their conversations he’d asked her if she was pretty and she’d said maybe and he’d guessed she wasn’t from the way she’d said it. They went in for fantasy—they put things on. Well, everyone did, of course. “Same age as you, Jasmin—you think that when we talked? What age you think?” “You didn’t sound a kid,” she said. She had a stud in one side of her nose and a little coil pierced into the edge of one ear. He wondered if she had something in her belly button and wanted to ask her but knew not to. He wanted to close his eyes and think about a gleam of something nestling there, but he smiled instead. Her hair was lank, no frizziness left in it, brightened with a coloring. “You take trouble,” he said. “I thought you’d be the kind. I could tell you’d take trouble with yourself.” Again there was the shrug. She held the paper coffee mug between her hands as if for warmth. She asked him if he was in work and he said yes, the law. “The law? With the police?” She looked around, an agitated movement, her eyes alarmed. He could take her hand, he thought, a natural thing to do, but he resisted that, too. “The courts,” he said. “If there’s a dispute, if there’s trouble I have to put a case. No, not the police, nothing to do with the police.” She nodded, unease draining away. “You going to be a nurse, Jasmin? Caring for people. I see you caring for people, Jasmin.” When they asked, he always said the courts. And usually he said he could see them caring for people. The Gold Mine was a place he knew, and they went there to play the fruit machines. He always won, he said, but today he didn’t. He didn’t mind that. He didn’t raise the roof like Giggs did when his money went for nothing. He didn’t say the whole thing was fixed. Good days, bad days was all he said. “No, you take it,” he said when she had to explain she hadn’t any money, and in the end she took the two-pound coin he gave to where they broke it down for her. He picked up a necklace for her with the grab, guiding the grab skillfully, knowing when to open the metal teeth and knowing not to be in a hurry to close them, to wait until he was certain. He’d cleared out everything there was on offer once, he said—sweets, jewelry, dice, three packs of cards, two penknives, the dancing doll, a Minnie Mouse, ornaments. He swivelled the crane about when he got the necklace for her, asking her what she wanted next, but this time the teeth closed an instant too soon and the bangle he’d gone after moved only slightly and then slipped back. They spent an hour in the Gold Mine. “Go back to the bus station for a while?” he suggested, and Jasmin said she didn’t mind. But on the way there were some seats, one on each side of a small concrete space with a concrete trough of shrubs in the middle. The shrubs were mostly dead, but one of the seats was empty and he asked her if she’d like to sit there. “Yeah, it’s nice,” Jasmin said. An elderly man, asleep, was stretched out on the seat opposite the empty one. On another, a mother and her children were eating chips. On the third two women, in silence, stared at nothing. “I come here when it’s sunny,” the man Jasmin was with said. “Nothing better to do, I come here.” He’d made her wear the necklace, putting it on for her, the tips of his fingers cool on her neck as he fiddled with the clasp. He’d said it suited her. It suited her eyes, he’d said, and she wondered about that, the beads being yellowish. When they’d been going toward the machine that took you to the stars he’d said he was twenty-nine and she’d wanted to say she liked his being older, and almost did. “The sun all right for you, Jasmin?” The two women looked at them, one and then the other, still not speaking. The mother scolded her children when they asked for more chips. She bundled the empty cartons into a waste bin and they went away. “There’s vitamins in the sun. You know that, Jasmin?” She nodded, although she hadn’t been aware of this. She tried to look at her necklace but she couldn’t see it properly when she pulled it taut and squinted down at the beads. If she’d been alone she would have taken it off, but she didn’t like to do that now. “Jasmin’s a great name,” he said. On the chat line he had said that, complimenting her, although he didn’t know she had given herself the name. She’d often thought he was affectionate when they had their conversations on the chat line, even though she’d been puzzled a few times when he described the telephone box he was in or read out what was written on a wall. The first time he’d read something out without saying he was doing it she’d wondered if he was all there in the head, but then he explained and it was all right. She imagined him in the courts, like you’d see on TV. She imagined him standing up with papers in one hand, putting a case. She imagined him looking to where she was watching, and his smile coming on, and wanting to wave at him but knowing she mustn’t because he’d have told her that. The first time on the chat line he’d commented on her voice. “You take it easy, now,” he’d said, and she hung on because she didn’t want him to go. “Love that voice,” he said and she realized he meant hers. He was smiling at her now, and they watched the sleeping man waking up. He had made a pillow of a plastic carrier bag stuffed full of what might have been clothes. He had undone his shoelaces and he did them up again. He looked about him and then he went away. “I thought you might say no, Jasmin, when I put it to you we’d meet up. Know what I mean, Jasmin? That you wouldn’t want to take it further.” She shook her head, denying that. She wanted her mother to go by, coming back from the betting shop, where the man Holby didn’t know about worked. Holby was pathetic, her mother said, another mistake she’d made, same’s the one with Jasmin’s father. She had got into a relationship with the betting-shop man and the next thing would be he’d be a mistake, too, no way he wouldn’t. “I’d never,” Jasmin heard herself protesting. “I’d never have said no.” She shook her head to make certain he was reassured. He’d lowered his voice when he’d said he had worried in case she’d say no. She didn’t want anything spoiled; she wanted everything to go on being as good as on the chat line, as good as it was now. “You at a loose end, Jasmin? You got the time today, come round to my place?” Again there was the ripple of excitement. She could feel it all over her body, a fluttering of pins and needles it almost felt like but she knew it wasn’t that. She loved being with him; she’d known she would. “Yeah,” she said, not hesitating, not wanting him to think she had. “Yeah, I got the time today.” “Best to walk,” he said. “All right with a walk, Jasmin?” “ ’Course I am.” And, because it seemed to belong now, Jasmin added that she didn’t know his name. “Clive,” he said. He liked that name and often gave it. Usually, they asked, sometimes even on the chat line, before they got going. Rodney he liked, too. Ken he liked. And Alistair. “I never knew a Clive,” she said. “You’re living at home, Jasmin?” “Oh, yes.” “You said. A bit ago you said that. I only wondered if you’d moved out by now.” “I wish I’d be able to.” “Arm’s length, are they?” She didn’t understand, and he said her mother and whoever. On the chat line he remembered she’d said she was an only child. Her mother she’d mentioned then, the boyfriend she’d referred to in the bus station. He asked about him, wondering if he was West Indian, and she said yes. Light-colored, she said. “He passes.” They had turned out of the busy streets, into Blenning Row, leading to Sowell Street, where the lavatories were, the school at the end. “A West Indian kid got killed here,” he said. “White kids took their knives out. You ever see a thing like that, Jasmin?” “No.” Vehemently, she shook her head, and he laughed and then she did. “You ever think of moving out, Jasmin? Anything like that come into your thoughts? Get a place of your own?” All the time, she said. The only thing was, she wasn’t earning. “First thing you said to me nearly, that you’d got nothing coming in.” “You’re easy to talk with, Clive.” He took her hand; she didn’t object. Her fingernails were silvery, he’d noticed in the McDonald’s, a couple of them jagged where they’d broken. No way she wasn’t a child, no way she’d reached sixteen, more like twelve. Her hand was warm, lying there in his, dampish, fingers interlaced with his. “There used to be a song,” he said. “ ‘Putting on the agony’ was how it went. ‘Putting on the style.’ Before your time, Jas. It could have been called something else, only those were the words. ‘That’s what all the young folk are doin’ all the while.’ Lovely song.” “Maybe I heard it one time, I don’t know.” “What age really, Jas?” “Seventeen.” “No, really, though?” She said fifteen. Sixteen in October, she said. When they were passing the Queen and Angel he asked her if she ever took a drink. It wouldn’t do for him to bring her onto licensed premises, he explained, and she said she wasn’t fussy for a drink, remembering the taste of beer, which she hadn’t liked. He said to wait and he went to an off-license across the street and came back with a plastic bag. He winked at her and she laughed. “Mustn’t be bad boys,” he said. “No more than a few sips.” They came to a bridge over the river. They didn’t cross it, but went down steps to a towpath. He said it was a shortcut. There wasn’t anyone around, and they leaned against a brick wall that was part of the bridge. He unscrewed the cap of the bottle he’d bought and showed her how the plastic disk he took from one of his jacket pockets opened out to become a tumbler. Tonic wine, he said, but he had vodka, too, miniatures he called the little bottles he had. What the Russians drank, he said, although she knew. He said he’d been in Moscow once. They drank from the tumbler when he’d tasted the mixture he’d made and said it wasn’t too strong. He’d never been responsible for making any girl drunk, he said. He had found the collapsible tumbler on the same seat where they’d been sitting in the sun. One day he’d seen it there and thought it was a powder compact. He carried it about with him in case he met a friend who’d like a drink. “All right, Jas?” “Yeah, great.” “You like it, Jas?” They passed the tumbler back and forth between them. She drank from where his lips had been; she wanted to do that. He saw her doing it and he smiled at her. Nice in the sun, he said when they walked on, and he took her hand again. She thought he’d kiss her, but he didn’t. She wanted him to. She wanted to sit on a patch of grass and watch the rowers going by, his arm around her shoulders, his free hand holding hers. There was some left in the bottles when he dropped them and the plastic bag into a waste bin. “Sit down, will we?” she said, and they did, her head pressed into his chest. “I love you, Clive,” she whispered, not able to stop herself. “We belong,” he whispered back. “No way we don’t, Jas.” She didn’t break the silence when they walked on, knowing that it was special, and better than all the words there might have been. No words were necessary, no words could add a thing to what there was. “I can see us in Moscow, Jas. I can see us walking the streets.” She felt different, as if her plainness wasn’t there. Her face felt different, her body, too. In the diner she’d be a different person clearing up the plates, not minding the lorrymen’s cigarette smoke, not minding what they said to her. Nothing she knew would be the same, her mother wouldn’t be, and letting Lukie Giggs touch her where he wanted to wouldn’t be. She wondered if she was drunk. “You’re never drunk, Jas.” He squeezed her hand, he said she was fantastic. Both of them were only tipsy, he said. Happy, he said. Soon’s he heard her voice he knew she was fantastic. Soon’s he saw her at the bus station. In the room they were going to there were the things he collected—little plastic tortoises, and racing cars, and books about places he wanted to go to, and pictures of castles on the walls. She imagined that when he told her, and saw a vase of summer flowers, curtains drawn against the sunlight. He played a disk for her, the Spice Girls, because they were in the past and he liked all that. They turned off the towpath, into a lane with a row of garage doors running along it, and walled back gardens on the other side. They came out on to a suburban road, and crossed it to a crescent. He dropped her hand before they reached it and pulled down the back of his jacket where it had ridden up a bit. He buttoned all three buttons. “Would you wait five minutes, Jas?” It was as if she knew about that, as if she knew why she had to wait and why it should be five minutes, as if he’d told her something she’d forgotten. She knew he hadn’t. It didn’t matter. “You be all right, Jas?” “ ’Course I will.” She watched him walking off and when he reached a front gate painted blue. She watched him as she had when he crossed the street to the off-license. She waited, as she had waited then, too, seeing again the little tortoises and the racing cars, hearing the Spice Girls. Across the road a delivery van drew up. No one got out, and a minute or so later it drove off. A dog went by. A woman started a lawnmower in one of the front gardens. She waited for longer than he’d said, for ages it felt like, but when he came back he was hurrying, as if making up for that. He almost ran, his flannel trousers flapping. He was out of breath when he reached her. He shook his head and said they’d best go back. “Back?” “Best to go back, Jas.” He took her arm, but he was edgy and didn’t take it as he had before. He didn’t search for her hand. He pulled her anorak when it was difficult for her to keep up with him. Behind them somewhere a car door banged. “Oh, God,” he said. A red car slowed down beside them as they were turning into the lane with the garage doors. When it stopped a woman with glasses on a string around her neck got out. She was wearing a brown skirt and a cardigan that matched it over a pale silk blouse. Her dark hair was coiled round her head, her lipstick glistened, as if she hadn’t had time to powder it over or had forgotten to. The glasses bobbed about on her blouse and then were still. Her voice was angry when she spoke but she kept it low, giving the impression that her teeth were clenched. “I don’t believe this,” she said. She spoke as if Jasmin wasn’t there. She didn’t look at her, not even glancing in her direction. “For God’s sake!” she almost shouted, and slammed the door of the car shut, as if she had to do something, as if only noise could express what she felt. “For God’s sake, after all we’ve been through!” Her face was quivering with rage, one hand made into a fist that struck the roof of the car once and then opened, to fall by her side. There was silence then. “Who is she?” The woman spoke when the silence had gone on, at last recognizing Jasmin’s presence. Her question came wearily, in a bleak, dull tone. “You’re on probation,” she said. “Did you forget somehow that you were on probation?” The man whom she railed at had not attempted to speak, had made no protestation, but words were muttered now. “She was looking for the towpath. She asked me where it was. I don’t know who she is.” The long, peaky features might never that afternoon, or any afternoon, have been other than they had become in the brief time that had passed, devoid of all expression, dead, a dribble of tears beginning. Then Jasmin’s companion of so many conversations, and whom she had begun to love, shambled off, and the woman said nothing until he reached the blue-painted ornamental gate and again disappeared around the side of the house. “Was there anything?” she asked then. She stared at Jasmin. Slowly she looked her up and down. Jasmin didn’t know what her question meant. “Did he do anything to you?” the woman asked, and Jasmin understood and yet did not. What mattered more was that he had cried, his happiness taken from him, his smile, too. He had cried for her. He had cried for both of them. All that she understood too well. “Who are you?” the woman asked. Her clenched-back voice, deprived of the energy of its anger, was frightened, and fear clung to the tiredness in her face. “Clive’s my friend,” Jasmin said. “There wasn’t nothing wrong. We done nothing wrong.” “That’s not his name.” “Clive, he said.” “He says anything. Did he give you drink?” Jasmin shook her head. Why should she say? Why should she get him into trouble? “You reek of drink,” the woman said. “Every time he gives them drink.” “He done nothing.” “His mother was my sister. He lives with us.” If she’d asked him, Jasmin said, he would have explained about his name. But the woman just stared at her when she began to tell her that she, also, had given herself a name, that sometimes people wanted to. “My sister died,” the woman said. “He’s been living with us since that. He thought the house would be empty this afternoon but it wasn’t, because I changed my mind about going out. You worry and you change your mind. Quite often you do. Well, naturally, I suppose. He’s been on charges.” “He was only going to show me, like, where it is he lived.” “What’s your name?” “Jasmin.” “If this is known they’ll take him in again.” Jasmin shook her head. There was a mistake, she said. The woman said there wasn’t. “We look after him, we lie for him, my husband and I. We’ve done our best since my sister died. A family thing, you do your best.” “There wasn’t anything.” “My sister knew his chance would come. She knew there’d be a day that would be too terrible for her to bear. He was her child, after all. It was too much. She left a note.” “Honestly, I promise you.” “I know, I know.” The woman got into her car and wound the window down as if she intended to say something else but she said nothing. She turned in the quiet road and drove back to her house. Frying chops, Holby prodded them occasionally with a fork. He liked to blacken them, to see the smoke rising while still not turning down the gas. It got into her hair, Jasmin’s mother maintained. Smoke like that was greasy, she insisted, but Holby said it couldn’t be. He heard the door when Jasmin came into the kitchen and called out to her, knowing it wasn’t her mother who’d come in. “How you doing, girl?” All right, Jasmin said, and then her mother was there, back from her time with her betting-shop friend. Even through the smoke, her entrance brought a gush of the perfume she so lavishly applied when she met her men. “What’re you frying, Holby?” She shouted above the sizzling of the meat, and Jasmin knew there was going to be a quarrel. In her room, even with the door closed she heard it beginning, her mother’s noisy criticisms, Holby’s measured drone of retaliation. She didn’t listen. Probably he had guessed at last about the betting-shop man, as her father had once guessed about him. Probably it had come to that—the frying of the chops, the smoke, the grease no more than a provocation, a way of standing up for himself. And Holby—today or some other day—would walk out, saying no man could stand it, which Jasmin remembered her father saying, too. She pulled the curtains over and lay down on her bed. She liked the twilight she had induced; even on better days than this she did. Tired after the walk to the house with the man she had begun to love, and after that the walk alone to where she lived herself, she closed her eyes. “You like to go in here?” he asked again. He carried her coffee to where she waited. She felt the touch of his fingers when he put the necklace on for her. “The sun all right for you?” he said. In the room she still had to imagine there were books on shelves, the vase of flowers, the pictures of castles. In a courtroom he put a case, his papers in one hand, gesturing with the other. They belonged, he said on the towpath, the rowers going by. Downstairs something was thrown, and there was Holby’s mumble, the clank of broken china when it was swept up, her mother’s voice going on, her crossness exhausted as the woman’s had been. He had been shamed by the woman getting things wrong and was the kind to mind. He didn’t realize the woman didn’t matter, that her talk and her fury didn’t. He wasn’t the kind to know that. He wasn’t the knowing sort. Her mother’s voice was different now, caressing, lying. She sent Holby out for beer, which at this stage in the proceedings she always did; Jasmin heard him go. Her mother called up the stairs, calling her Angie, saying to come down. She didn’t answer. She didn’t say that Angie wasn’t her name. She didn’t say anything. When she went there, he would not be on the seat in the sun. He would not be waiting in the bus station. Or playing the machines. Or in the McDonald’s. But when Jasmin closed her eyes again his smile was there and it didn’t go away. She touched with her lips the necklace that had been his gift. She promised she would always keep it by her.
The Trojan Sofa It’s dark—pitch black—and everything’s shaking and bumping. I’m not scared—just have some what-if knots in my gut. What if they have a dog? That would be me—well and truly. Or a burglar alarm, with laser beams, like they have in the movies. And when you walk through the beam, which you can’t see, the alarm goes off in the nearest cop shop. But my Da would’ve asked all these questions when he was selling. My Da sells anything and everything, bric-a-brac, furniture, you name it. He sells all over the place—fairs, car-boot sales, a stall in the Markets—but quality stuff, or as much of it as he can get. He’s good, friendly, knows what he’s doing. “This is a good piece—worth quite a bit, as you well know.” And he’d laugh with the customer who had just paid up. “If you’d more stuff like this you’d want to have an alarm in the house.” “I don’t like alarms,” or “I’ve already got the best on the market.” And that’d be my Da clued in. “You wouldn’t want dog hairs all over good fabric like that.” “I don’t have a dog,” and that would be my Da clued in a bit more. He’s a dab hand at getting people to tell him things. I’m on my left side—the side I sleep on at night—because I know there’ll not be much turning round in the foreseeable future. My knees bent only slightly. I’ve all my bits and pieces. “You’ve bugger all to do except keep your wits about you and open the door. In this case two doors.” I’m in my first year at grammar school. Got the eleven-plus—no problem. Even though I hadn’t reached eleven. That’s good for a boy from the Markets. When my Da went up to the College, the President told him I got the highest marks of anybody in Northern Ireland. Smart boy wanted. I can hear my Da’s voice now talking to Uncle Eamon. “Two flights of stairs and you’re outa puff already?” “It’s the bloody smoking,” I hear Eamon say. “Why don’t you give it up? It was no problem for me.” “Your right hand down a bit. Take it easy.” I can hear the bumping of their feet on carpeted stairs. “It weighs a fuckin ton,” says Uncle Eamon. “Watch your tongue in front of the boy,” says my Da. I hear them both laughing. He has very strong opinions, has my Da. A war is two sides, one against the other, he says. It’s as simple as that. “The wrong done to this country was so great that we can do anything in retaliation.” If it’s done against the Brits, it’s O.K. by him. “A broken phone is a British liability,” he says. “So’s a burnt bus. They’re things that have to be replaced—by the English Exchequer.” That’s why he likes to deal with the other side. I was there one time when he sold a three-piece suite to this guy, the most Orangeman-looking man I’ve ever seen. You could tell what he was from a mile away—the big fat jowls, the mustache, the accent. “Your address, sir?” When he says the part of town where he lives, my Da looks at Uncle Eamon as if to say “Wouldn’t you know?” “Yes—we can deliver free,” says my Da. So the next day I’m into the sofa with my gear and the hessian is stapled back onto the frame. It’s usually an overnight. Next morning when everybody’s away to work and the place is quiet I Stanley-knife my way out and open the door. My Da and Uncle Eamon are sitting there in the van smiling. And in they come. The sofa’s the first thing they lift, because it has all the evidence in it—where I’ve bed-and-breakfasted. The modus operandi. Then they clear the place. And it’s one up for old Ireland. Before we did it for the first time, my Da said to me, “It’s up to yourself. You can say yea or nay. I’d never force anybody to do something like this—never mind one of my own. But I must say it is for Ireland.” “Ireland the Brave,” says Uncle Eamon from the sidelines. What I’m in at the moment—so I’ve been told by my Da, the expert—is a Victorian sofa. It smells of dust, dry built-up-over-the-years dust. It’s worse because we’re on the move and everything’s getting shaken up. Sneezing’s a danger. There’s a bump against something and I bang my head. “Be careful,” says my Da to Eamon. “The Major’ll be none too pleased if his property comes damaged.” “Niall won’t be too happy, either,” says Eamon. That’s me he’s talking about. Niall. Niall Donnelly. Sometimes my Da calls me Skinny-ma-link. They set the sofa down and I hear a bell ringing in the distance. The door opens and a new English voice starts talking. This whole thing is like a play on the radio. You can hear everything but see nothing. And then a woman’s voice joins in. There’s a lotta bumping and angling so’s they can get through the doorways—so much so that, when it goes upright, I have to hang on like grim death to the wooden frame. Like the ladder thing in the park you go hand over hand on. “Here?” says my Da. “There, with its back to the wall,” says the woman. My Da rabbits on a bit with the Major and there’s a lotta laughing while my Uncle Eamon goes back to the van for the clock. I can just see my Da, the way he throws his head back and opens his mouth wide enough to see his fillings. And Eamon smiling on his way down the stairs. He seems to take for ages. It’s so bad the Major actually says, “He’s taking his time.” “He’ll be having a fly fag.” When Uncle Eamon does come back they all listen to the chimes and the Major sets it to the one he likes the best. He also chooses to have it chime at quarterhours. They set the right time by their watches and there’s the tickety sound of the clock being wound up. Eventually they go and I hear their voices getting weaker and the slam of the main door of the flat. I feel the vibration through the floor. There is silence now, and I become conscious of my breathing—making sure my nose is clear. The man says something I can’t hear to the woman. She laughs. I guess they are looking at the sofa. Then they go away. I hear knives and forks and plates rattling in another room. A radio is switched on but it’s posh music. They must be eating their tea. There’s a great smell which makes me hungry. Bacon or meat of some sort. Or onions—I love fried onions. It’s very hard to know how much time has passed. My Da says I’m far better off without a watch. You’re more aware of time passing if you’re always looking to check. Anyway I couldn’t see a watch, it’s so dark. But it might be a kinda comfort to know how much longer I’ve gotta be in here. When I hear them actually talking in the other room I change my position. Move my leg a bit—change where the frame is biting into my backside—move my pillows around a bit. I’ll eat my sandwiches in the middle of the night, when they’ve gone to bed. My older brother says when I eat it sounds like an army marching through muck. “Keep your mouth closed.” Then I hear the clock chiming again. It does those chimes you hear on the news over a picture of Big Ben and Westminster. Then it bongs eight times. My Da and Uncle Eamon had stopped the van out in the country to look the place over before they staple-gunned me in. “How can you be so sure he’s a major?” “Instinct,” says my Da. “Maybe not a major. But Army of some sort. All upper-crust Brits are. And they’re as obvious as punks. Instead of a Mohican, a tweed cap. Leather shoes, and that voice, that cut-glass voice.” “If you were a Brit, would you allow furniture in without checking it?” My Da didn’t say anything. “That’s where they put fire bombs in the shops—down the sides of sofas.” I’d gone over the hedge for a last pee, after drinking a can of Coke. I could see the house was a huge mansion with turrets and stuff, in among trees and gardens. It was about a mile away up a tarmac drive. My Da said the house had been turned into about ten flats by some developer. And he went on and on about the olden days and how could any one man have lived in such a place—to have it all to himself with servants tugging the forelock and kowtowing to him. Uncle Eamon spat out the van window. When the Major and his woman finish their tea, they switch off the radio and come into the room. Then the piano playing starts. Sort of rhythmic stuff. No point to it. Was it him or was it her playing? I was just glad there was something to listen to—to pass the time. I knew it was actual playing and not a radio because sometimes the notes would stop and the same bit would be played again. Better. After a while the playing stopped. Someone was clapping—pretend applause. Clap, clap, clap. “Bravo,” said the Major. “Play me the Mozart.” The piano started again. And went on and on and on. With that kinda music, you know when the end is coming. It winds itself up. After that, everything goes quiet. I know they are in the room but I can’t hear anything. I can sense someone sitting on the sofa, then getting off again. They’re speaking very quietly—sorta murmuring. This goes on for ages and then they start exercising—sometimes on the sofa, sometimes on the floor. In school they have this crazy bastard of a gym teacher who has a yelpy voice. “Running on the spot. Go!” “Ten press-ups. Go!” And he reserves the highest and loudest note for yelping the word “go.” Before the Major and his woman eventually stop the exercising and the gasping, the penny drops. They’re doing sex. Having a ride. Not two inches away. And I can’t see a thing. And then they go back to the murmuring. I can’t make out a single word. The clock chimes nine and the TV is switched on. The music is for the News. Somebody sits down on the sofa. The news is the usual boring stuff. When it comes to the Northern Ireland bit, there are two murders. A prison officer who worked at the Maze tried to start his car and it blew up and he got killed. Boohoo. Lend me a hankie. The other was a drive-by shooting on the Antrim Road. A boy of seventeen had been shot, and died on the way to hospital. If it’s the Antrim Road he’ll be one of ours. There was three explosions, but nobody got hurt because there was warnings. I’m feeling a bit sleepy but keep myself awake by sticking my fingernail into the back of my other hand. I don’t think I snore. But you can’t be sure. A comedy program comes on—there’s a lotta laughing from the audience. Canned stuff. It goes on for ages. When the clock chimes eleven, the Major and his wife go to bed. I hear the click of the light switch going off and I’m aware that the darkness has increased. I hear them doing things in the distance—running taps, brushing teeth, a kettle clicking off when it boils. A hot-water bottle for her, maybe. After a while everything goes silent. At last I can turn. And fix my pillows. I don’t even risk a wee groan. This must have been what it was like “durin the war.” All the old ones at the stalls talk about “durin the war.” They never stop. I reach out for my sandwiches—touch and rip the cling wrap. Ham and cheese. I normally like egg and onion, but my Da said it’s too risky—it would stink to high heaven. Give me away. Rosaleen made them. She lives with my Da now. I like her—she’s a good laugh. My mother died of cancer when I was eight—right after my First Communion. Chewing in the quiet like this is weird. The inside of your head is filled with noises, crunchings and squelchings—moving muscles and teeth clicks and a roaring in your ears. And I think of myself as a mouse—the way other people hear a mouse. They sit up in bed at night and hear small noises, scratchings, pitter-patterings. “There’s the mouse,” they say. “I must set the trap tomorrow.” This is the third Trojan sofa I’ve done. The first was the worst. I was nervous and needed to pee a lot. Nearly filled the poly bag I had. Fresh piss is really warm. And, see, trying to get the knot outa the neck of the bag when it was half full when you wanted to go for a second and third time—that was awful. Anyway, it all went fine. A cinch. It was funny being in a house with Union Jacks and pictures of the Queen on the walls. Really spooky. On Saturday afternoons I help Rosaleen with her stall and she gives me a tenner. All the books are priced in pencil on the inside leaf, so it’s dead easy. My Da’s stall is about three over from Rosaleen’s, so I seen the Major that day. Nothing remarkable about him at all—heavyset, in a tweed jacket, open-neck shirt, wavy hair getting a bit gray—but my Da knew the voice. The voice is a dead giveaway. He was interested in this old-fashioned clock for his mantelpiece, paid a lotta attention to it, listened to the different chimes it could do and all. Then he took the Victorian sofa as well. And now here I am lying in the back of it ateing sandwiches. I don’t wanna wash them down. As little liquid as possible. So I just knock them around inside my mouth till they go away. It takes bloody ages. I don’t bother with the crusts. At this very minute my Da and Rosaleen’ll be coming back after a night in the pub. He takes pints of lager; she has her vodkas and Coke. When they come home me and my brother hang around being nice. They usually bring a crowd back with them—maybe a couple of fiddlers who can play jigs and reels, or singers with guitars. It’s a bit of a laugh and when he’s in good form my Da’s liable to put his hand in his pocket. He never remembers the next day. So you can try and tap him again. Rosaleen hugs us and says things like “Yis are not mine—but I love ya.” Then she’ll punch my Da if he’s beside her. “My womb cries out,” she says and everybody’ll laugh. I start to feel really sleepy now. I think about having a piss but whatever way I was upended coming through the door I can’t find the poly bag. It’s probably down by my feet somewhere. And I can’t bend. After that I must have dozed off, because I waken up halfway through the Westminster chimes. I lie there counting all twelve of the strokes that follow the tune. Then I hear a creak of a door in the distance. Somebody on the stairs. Jesus, maybe he’s rumbled me. But how? What have I just done? Did I snore? Did I give myself away somehow? Did he hear me chewing? No chance. Wait. The light clicks on and I can see faintly around me after the blackness. It must be the Major because he clears his throat—a deep sound, not a woman. He doesn’t come near the sofa. So it’s a false alarm. He shuffles over to where I think the mantelpiece must be. He is doing something footery because he’s cursing and mumbling to himself. Then he says “Ha!” and leaves the room. The light goes off and I hear nothing more. What was that all about? Maybe he was sleepwalking. Did people really do that? Walk about the place sound asleep? Uncle Eamon says he woke up one night and he was standing pissing into a suitcase. Maybe the Major’s turned off the chimes. And I’ll be able to get a bit of shut-eye. “Thanks and praises be to God”—Rosaleen says that all the time. I don’t remember anything much of what my mother said. She smiled a lot—or did I get that from photographs of her? Sitting in the park. On beaches. With other girls on the wee wall outside Granda’s. And the styles. Her hair and her clothes—they were just embarrassing. When she died she went yellow. I seen her in the coffin. It had the lid off before the funeral. That was a thing she said, “Yella as a duck’s foot.” I can remember that. “So-and-so had the jaundice—he was as yella as a duck’s foot.” I lie thinking about her for a while. My Da seemed to take a long time to get over it. If any grownup on the street mentioned her to me—“Aw, I knew your mother”—I just wanted to cry. And that went on for years. I don’t have very many friends. Most of them are grown up—like Uncle Eamon and the ones who come back to the house after the pub. I don’t really like the friends who are my own age. Danny Breen and Eugene Magee. I fight with them a lot. They’re so stupid playing. They squabble and fall out about the rules for everything. And they cheat all the time. It’s impossible to knock around with them. “You do this.” “No I don’t.” “Yes you do—for I seen ya.” “Ya fuckin did not.” Like politicians in Stormont. I can’t sleep because I’m still fairly uptight. But I’m relaxed enough to be able to think about the way things are. The second time we pulled the scam it was a woman who owned the flat. She was high up in the Civil Service at Stormont. My Da said it was a cover for something to do with the H-blocks. But when I got out of the sofa I couldn’t believe the place. It was the worst I ever seen. Everything everywhere. Newspapers and high-heeled shoes and magazines and half-drunk cupsa tea. Dirty knickers, dressing gowns, dresses and blouses flung all over the place. And tissues. I’ve never seen as many bunched-up tissues in my life. A fire hazard. And the only neat thing in the whole place was her manicure set and the ten wee nail clippings on a black coffee table—each one a wee arc. How will this woman know we’ve burgled her? She’ll not know for a week. Unless she wants to watch the telly. Or play something on the video. The smell of the dust inside the sofa for some reason makes me feel sad. It’s not a bad smell. It’s just sad. And it won’t go away. The smell dries inside my mouth. I try to get in the habit of mouth breathing because it’s quieter. And I begin to dream. I see myself dreaming in the darkness and then I wake up in the darkness. Not knowing where I am. And back to dreaming again. In one dream I’m in school and nobody in the class knows what “onomatopoeia” is except me. But I can’t put my hand up. I’m paralyzed. Another dream is of me snoring. And jerking awake to stop me snoring. Rosaleen puts me in the bottom of a wardrobe and covers me with coats to keep the sound to a minimum. Then I wake up. Wide awake. I can sense it’s light—morning light, not electric. I can make out areas and shades. I check where my Stanley knife is. It’s one of those with a safety-slide thing at the side for retracting and bringing out the blade. I should have been awake earlier. And I know there’s something wrong. The first thing I hear is a man’s footsteps walking away from the sofa. Quickly. I just know by the way he’s walking that he’s onto me. I hear him lifting the phone. He uses one word. Police. Then he starts talking about an intruder in his house—trying to keep his voice down. I have to be quick. I get the Stanley knife and slide out the blade—stick it through the material above my head—out into the room. Then I pull hard. A kinda ripping sound. A thin line of light. A tent flap. And me getting out of it. Moving my stiff legs. Backing out. My feet are on the floor and I straighten up. My back feels like it’s broke in two. I look down the hallway where the Major is on the phone. The door of the room is open and his eyes are watching me. “Freeze!” It’s a scream that scares the shit outa me. The Major moves his arms upward, and now I can see he has a shotgun aimed at my head. The phone falls and swings on its wiggly cord. He starts to walk toward me. I see more and more clearly both barrels—two black holes—as they point straight at my face. He’s as white as a sheet. “Freeze, you bastard.” My stomach swoops. Again and again. His voice is like the gym teacher’s. Yelpy. Because he’s scared shitless. I could have been anything. So I do as I’m told. Try not to frighten him into doing something foolish. But I start to shake. I hope he doesn’t notice me shaking. “You fucking piece of shit. I’ve a good mind to kill you right now. Before the police arrive.” I’m still behind the sofa, between it and the wall. He walks past me and goes to the front door to check that it is firmly closed. My heart’s beating like mad. Then the clock chimes—the whole Westminster followed by nine dings. He must have turned it back on earlier. When I was asleep. Now I can hear the clock ticking. Or is it my imagination. Myself breathing. “Do everything nice and slow or I might just pull this trigger. Put that blade down.” Very deliberately, with my thumb, I retract the blade into the handle and set it on the seat of the sofa. It’s weird. I’m gonna be shot in the face and yet the thing that annoys me most is—the room isn’t the way I thought it was. It’s much, much bigger. The mantelpiece is on the wrong wall and the piano—a grand piano with a big fin sticking up in the air—is over by the bay window. I didn’t even know the room had a bay window. Everything’s in the wrong place. “You’re a bit young for this game.” The cut-glass voice. Like Prince Charles. “Who put you up to this?” My hands are resting on the back of the sofa. It’s velvety material—gives under my fingers when I press. I haven’t a clue what to do. I’ve never been caught before. The only advice I ever heard was my Da’s. “Whatever you say, say nothing.” But he was talking about guys getting interrogated in Castlereagh. Guys getting tortured. Another thing—I badly need a piss. Even more since he scared me. You can see the Major is delighted when he sees what age I am. He keeps moving about. Swaggering almost—like the cat that got the cream. He begins getting some color back in his face. His wife must be away to work, because there’s no sign of her. He begins talking ninety to the dozen. Still with the gun levelled at my head. “I was just thinking, I’ll try out my new sofa—read the paper. At first I didn’t believe what I was hearing. I kept thinking, There’s someone else in this room. Breathing.” He shakes his head in disbelief. “It wasn’t snoring—just long breaths. Who are you working for?” I don’t want to say anything. Don’t want to give anything away. I look down, like I’m in pain. I’m pressing myself hard against the back of the sofa. “I need the toilet,” I say. “Oh—it speaks, does it?” He kinda smirks. “Go in the police station.” “I’m gonna wet myself.” He just stares at me. “I’m gonna wet the carpet.” He thinks about this and stares at me. Like a teacher when he hears an excuse he doesn’t believe. Like he thinks there’s more to it. “Please,” I say. “I’ve gotta go now.” I grip the front of my jeans to stop myself and close my eyes—tight. As if every muscle was connected—even my eyes were contributing to holding it in. The Major now sees it as a real threat. To his fawn carpet. He’d never get rid of the smell. He waves me out from behind the sofa with the shotgun. He goes in front of me and beckons me. He leads me into a panelled hallway. There are various brown doors off it. One is open and I can see office chairs in front of big drawing boards. Still my fist is bunched at my flies. The Major indicates another door. I open it but it only leads to another. In between there is a washing machine and a dryer and a big wash basket. He holds the door open with the toe of his brown leather shoe. I open the next door into the bathroom. He follows me in and nods to the toilet. I’m still burstin but I don’t like taking my thing out in front of him. He sits down on the side of the bath and keeps pointing the gun at me. So I half turn my back on him and take my thing out. But being watched this closely nothing happens. I’ve gone into some kinda block. I look at the wall in front of me. There’s a framed diploma. What a place to hang a diploma. It’s for Architecture. For somebody called Dunstan Luttrell. At the same time I’m trying to think of a plan. To get away. There’s a narrow frosted-glass window to my left but it looks well and truly closed. Anyway we’re two floors up, which is a long way down. Then when the piss starts it nearly drills a hole in the delph. It goes on and on and on—like it’s never going to stop, making an awful lotta noise in the bowl. “You sound like a man on stilts after a night on the beer,” says the Major. He’s making jokes. There’s no way this guy is going to shoot me if I make a run for it. And he wouldn’t be fit enough to catch me. Fat bastard. Eventually I stop peeing and give myself a wee shake and put it away. I give a wee shivery shudder because of losing my central heating. I continue to stand at the toilet bowl. “So you’ve been in there all night.” I nod my head before I can stop myself. Give him no information whatsoever. Maybe he’s remembering doing the sex. Maybe he’s embarrassed about it. If I leg it this minute, I’ll have time to get down onto the road and into the van before the cops arrive. Maybe the traffic is bad. He waves the gun toward the hallway. I start to move past the mirror and the washbasin. My face is too pale. “Wash your hands.” I don’t know whether he’s kidding or not. The gun’s pointing at me. I turn on the tap and wash my hands. It’s that soap with the wee label that never goes away. Imperial Leather. The last thing to go is the wee label. How do they make it do that? I reach out to get the towel and he screams again. “Do not fucking touch anything in this house! Scumbag.” I shake my hands a bit, wipe them on my jeans. He is so angry I’m afraid he might pull the trigger by accident. He goes out the door with the gun still trained on me and he waits in the laundry bit and waves me through. I decide this is the time. If I’m gonna go—I have to do it now. He won’t have the balls. I open the door into the hallway and slam it as hard as I can after me. I hear him shouting. And I run. His hands are full with the gun. As I race past the sofa I lift the Stanley knife and pocket it. I get to the front door of the flat. By this time the Major is out of the laundry room and putting the shotgun up to his shoulder. Which means he’s standing still and I’m running. “Stop or I’ll shoot!” he screams. The front door takes two hands. My back quakes expecting to be shot. The lower handle and the Yale lock. I get both open—all the time waiting for my head to explode. But he can’t do it—he doesn’t have the guts. And I’m through the door and running down the central stairs about four at a time. Steadying myself with my hand on the bannisters. And out the main door and leggin it across the lawn to get cover from some trees and bushes. The speed I’m going. It’s a bright day full of sunshine with a blue sky. I’m high on adrenaline. And after a night with a mouth full of dust it feels great. I want to yell, “Fuck you, Major! Fuck the Brits!” I zigzag through the wood as far as the road, looking at where my feet land, avoiding tree roots, kicking dead leaves. The sunlight flickers as I’m dancing down dips and sprinting up slopes. I spot the white of the van in a lay-by about half a mile away. I hear a police nee-naw in the distance. By the time I get to the lay-by I’m completely knackered. My Da is in the driver’s seat facing the house, and Uncle Eamon’s having a look through the binoculars at what he thinks is a sparrow hawk hovering over the motorway. The police Land Rover trundles past heading for the big house. I’m coming up behind the van and they don’t see me. I bang the side. Uncle Eamon opens the door and looks down at me. “Where did you come from?” “Niall!” shouts my Da. I jump up into the van. I can hardly talk for panting. “Get outa here.” My Da switches on, indicates, and we start driving. “He caught me.” And I tell them the whole disaster. The next morning was Saturday and we were all standing about in the Markets. “What have they got on us?” Eamon says. “What can they prove? Was anything taken? It wasn’t ‘breaking and entering.’ For there was no ‘breaking.’ And no ‘entering.’ If anything the boy was ‘exiting.’ ” “And very fast, by the sound of it,” says Rosaleen. “I’m sure the Major’s in Intelligence,” my Da says. The next thing is the cops turn up. Out of an armored Land Rover. Machine guns, flak jackets, the whole gear. They question my Da and he spins them some yarn about catching me drunk on cider and beating me and falling out with me and me running away to hide in the sofa he was repairing and falling asleep and then him stapling it up and delivering it with me inside. And them all laughing the way he told it—even the R.U.C. men. Then the cops talked to me—Rosaleen had her arm round me the whole time—and I backed up what my Da said. “Leave the poor wee guy alone,” Rosaleen kept saying. I also told them I was very anxious to get outa the Major’s house. With that man threatening me with a shotgun. And me only eleven. The cops threatened to bring me in front of a magistrate but nothing ever came of it. About the Markets the talk was of me being the only burglar to leave his victim richer by a bowlful of piss and a couple of crusts. The Major did turn out to be the famous English architect Dunstan Luttrell, like on the diploma. Not long after that, his photo was all over the papers for designing an oratory for some nuns. The press made a big thing about it. English architect, Irish nuns. Protestant-Catholic coöperation. Still my Da said the architecture was a cover story—everybody in Intelligence work had one. They like to keep us in the dark, he said. 
In the Reign of Harad IV In the reign of Harad IV there lived at court a maker of miniatures, who was celebrated for the uncanny perfection of his work. Not only were the objects of his strenuous art pleasing to look at but the pleasure and astonishment increased as the observer, bending closer, saw that a passionate care had been lavished on the smallest and least visible details. It was said that no matter how closely you examined one of the Master’s little pieces you always discovered some further wonder. Among the many tasks of the maker of miniatures was supplying court ladies with carved ivory plants and triple-headed sea monsters for their cabinets of delight, drawing the fur and feathers of fabulous creatures in the “Book of Three Hundred Secrets,” and, above all, replacing the furnishings of the old toy palace, which the King had inherited from his father, and which was filled with moldering draperies and cracked wood. The famous toy palace, with its more than six hundred rooms, its dungeons and secret passageways, its gardens and courtyards and orchards, rose to the height of a man’s chest and occupied its own chamber, across from the King’s library. In return for his duties the maker of miniatures was given a private apartment in the palace, not far from the court carpenter, as well as an ermine robe that entitled him to take part in official ceremonies. He was assisted by two youthful apprentices. They roughed out the larger miniatures, such as cupboards and canopy beds, fired the little earthenware bowls in a special kiln, applied the first coat of lacquer to objects made of wood, and saved precious time for the Master by fetching from the palace workshops pieces of ivory, copper, lapis, boxwood, and beechwood. But the apprentices were not permitted to attempt the more difficult labors of the miniaturist’s art, such as carving the dragon heads at the feet of table legs, or forging the minuscule copper keys that turned the locks of drawers and chests. One day after the completion of an arduous and exhilarating task—he had made for one of the miniature orchards a basket of brilliantly lifelike red-and-green apples, each no larger than the pit of a cherry, and as a finishing touch he had placed on the stem of one apple a perfectly reproduced copper fly—the maker of miniatures felt in himself a stirring of restlessness. It wasn’t the first time he had experienced such stirrings at the end of a long task, but lately the odd, internal itching had become more insistent. As he tried to penetrate the feeling, to reveal it more clearly to himself, he thought of the basket of apples. The basket had been unusually satisfying to make, because it had presented him with a hierarchy of sizes: the basket itself, composed of separate slats of boxwood bound with copper wire, then the apples, and, at last, the fly. The tiny fly, with its precisely rendered wings, had caused him the most difficulty and the most joy, and it occurred to him that there was no particular reason to stop at the fly. Suddenly, he was seized by an inner trembling. Why had he never thought of this before? How was it possible? Didn’t logic itself demand that the downward series be pursued? At this thought he felt a deep, guilty excitement, as if he had come to a forbidden door at the end of a private corridor and heard, as he slowly turned the key, a sound of distant music. He set out to make an apple basket the size of one of his apples. The new wooden apples, each with a stem and two leaves, were so small that he was able to carve them only with the aid of an enlarging glass, which he set into a supporting frame. But even as he struggled pleasurably over each apple he realized that he was dreaming of the fly, the impossible fly that, as it turned out, was visible only as a speck on the minuscule stem, though it was perfect in every detail when viewed through the glass. The King, who had praised the original fly, looked at the new basket of apples with astonished delight. When the Master invited him to observe the apples through the glass, the King drew in his breath, appeared to be about to speak, and suddenly clapped his hands sharply, whereupon the Chamberlain strode in. The King instructed him to view the miniature fly through the lens. The Chamberlain, a cold and imperious man, gave a harsh gasp. By the next morning the story of the invisible fly was known throughout the palace. With new zest, as if he were returning to an earlier and more exuberant period of his life, the middle-aged but still vigorous Master devoted himself to a series of miniatures that in every way surpassed his finest efforts of the past. From the pit of a cherry he carved a ring of thirty-six elephants, each holding in its trunk the tail of the elephant before it. Every elephant possessed a pair of nearly invisible tusks carved out of ivory. One day, the Master presented to the King a saucer on which stood an inverted ebony thimble. When the King picked up the thimble, he discovered beneath it a meticulous reproduction of the northwest wing of his toy palace, with twenty-six rooms fully furnished, including a writing table with ostrich-claw legs and a gold birdcage containing a nightingale. Scarcely had the maker of miniatures completed the thimble palace when he felt a new burst of restlessness. Once embarked on his downward voyage, would he ever be able to stop? Besides, wasn’t it plain that the tiny palace, though but partially visible to the unaided eye, revealed itself too readily, without that resistance which was an essential part of aesthetic delight? And he proposed to himself a plunge beneath the surface of the visible, the creation of a detailed world wholly inaccessible to the naked eye. He began with simple things—a copper bowl, a beechwood box—for the material he worked with was, before magnification, itself invisible and required of him a new degree of delicate manipulation. He quickly recognized the need for more powerful lenses, more subtle tools. From the court carpenter, he ordered a pair of complex gripping devices that held his hands still and steadied his fingers. This was no work for an old man, he thought—no, or for a young man, either—but only for someone in the full vigor of his middle years. His first masterpiece in the realm of the invisible was a stag with branching antlers. Through a powerful glass he watched the invisible sharpen into the visible: the head twisted to one side, the mouth slightly open, the lips drawn back to reveal the teeth. He carved it and painted it down to the last detail, tooth and hoof and pale inner ear; and it was said by some that, if you looked very closely through the enlarging glass, you could distinguish the amber irises from the bright black pupils. No sooner had he finished the stag than he embarked on a far more challenging task: an invisible garden, modelled at first on one of the thirty-nine palace gardens but quickly developing its own, more elaborate design. During the early stages a sudden draft destroyed a week’s worth of work. With the aid of the court carpenter, for whom he drew up a plan, the maker of miniatures constructed a teakwood box with a sloping top, in which was set a square magnifying lens. Two panels in the sides of the box slid smoothly up and down, so that a pair of hands might be inserted, and the square lens, attached to a system of rods and screws, could be raised and lowered. The intricate and delicate garden, protected from disturbing currents of air, grew slowly until it contained dozens of twelve-sided flower beds, fourteen varieties of fruit tree with individual leaves, a system of crossing paths paved with tesserae of ebony and ivory, onyx fountains carved with legendary creatures, snails under stones. Although the King expressed wonder and amazement at the garden seen through the glass, and praised the Master’s conquest of a new world, he asked many questions about the lens and the teakwood box, as if he suspected them of working a spell. At last the King permitted himself to wonder whether his maker of miniatures might not soon return to the visible miracle of his exquisite palace furniture. In the King’s voice the Master heard a tone of unmistakable reproach. As he explained the apparatus and adjusted the lens, it seemed to him that by venturing beyond the visible world he had embarked on a voyage more perilous than he had known. But already he had thrown himself into the crowning masterpiece of this period: the King’s famous toy palace, entirely invisible to the naked eye. The more than six hundred rooms would be completely furnished and scrupulously rendered in every detail, including dovetail joints in the cabinets, working locks on the drawers, and fifteen dozen complete sets of knives, forks, and spoons in chased silver, each with the royal insignia—a crown and crossed swords—worked onto the handle. During the construction of his palace-beneath-the-glass, the maker of miniatures paid several visits to the original toy palace, and was startled each time by the vast building that towered almost to the height of his shoulders. The chairs in the council chamber were the size of his fists. Ever since his own work had taken its slight and necessary turn, its odd, unaccountable swerve away from classic smallness toward another, more dubious realm, his two apprentices had assumed the task of supplying furniture for the King’s toy palace. And the Master saw that it was good: they were well suited to large and striking effects; he had perhaps been unduly harsh in limiting them to elementary tasks, in the days when such things concerned him. One day, while looking at a desk in the King’s toy palace, the maker of miniatures fell into a reverie. Fastened to the drawer of the desk was a pair of brass lion’s-head handles, which had once seemed to him the height of elegance and had cost him three days of work. The smallest object in the toy palace was a silver needle no thicker than a hair. It occurred to him, not without pride, that the entire palace he was now constructing beneath his glass, with its more than six hundred rooms and its gardens and orchards, could be enclosed by the eye of that needle. But even as he sank deeply into his little world he felt at the back of his mind a slight itching, as if he knew that his palace, even that, could not satisfy him for long. For such a feat, however arduous, was really no more than the further conquest of a familiar realm, the twilight realm of the world revealed by his glass, and he yearned for a world so small that he could not yet imagine it. As he worked on his palace the craving grew in him, and he seemed to sense dimly, just out of reach beyond his inner sight, a farther kingdom. He began to see it more clearly, with growing excitement, though he confessed to himself that it was less a seeing than a desire gradually hardening into a certainty. Although he now worked with material so minute that it was invisible to the unaided eye, it remained true that the invisible was made visible by his lens. If to others he seemed a magician who brought the seen out of the unseen, in fact he worked wholly in the visible world. It was an ambiguous and elusive world, which vanished into the invisible as soon as the glass was removed, and yet it was a far cry from the purely invisible realm he sensed just beyond. And he longed to construct objects so small that they would escape the power of the mediating glass, remain submerged in the dark kingdom of the invisible. He began as always with a simple object: an oblong ivory box with a sliding top. Although the box was so marvellously small that it remained invisible even through the glass, he continued to make use of his teakwood viewer with the sloping top and movable lens, for the familiar apparatus served to concentrate his attention and steady his fingers. The ivory box, which never once emerged from its hidden world to reveal itself to the eye of the Master, was completed in seven days. With his inner eye, he contemplated it coolly and felt a calm elation. Despite the absence of visible evidence, he was certain of its formal perfection, of the elegant precision of its parts—never had he taken so much care. Immediately he threw himself into a more ambitious task: a beechwood peacock with outspread tail. The enchanting peacock, radiant with unseen colors, took him nearly three weeks, and when he was done he felt ready for the task he had secretly been preparing for: an imaginary kingdom. And so he set to work on his invisible kingdom, with its walled cities and winding rivers, its forests of beech and fir, its copper mines and temple towers, its spoons and insects. By the end of a year he had completed a single city. The city contained cobbled streets and market squares, baskets of grapes on the fruit sellers’ stands, merchants’ houses with pillared balconies overlooking courtyards, individual bottles in the glassblowers’ shops. He felt tired and exhilarated, and as he imagined all that remained undone, stretching out before him like an immense adventure, he found himself wishing that he could reveal his work to someone, as he had once been able to do. The solitude of his task was never oppressive, but from time to time, in the pauses of his day, he felt a touch of loneliness. The King no longer summoned him, and his apprentices had moved into an adjoining chamber and taken on apprentices of their own. One afternoon, when he was deep-sunk in his invisible kingdom, there was a rap at the door of his chamber. Half raising his head from the teakwood box, the maker of miniatures called for the visitor to enter. The door opened to admit two of the four new apprentices. They began by apologizing for disturbing the Master at work, but explained that they had long admired his unsurpassed art and could not resist the desire to pay their respects and to beg for news of his latest work, of which they had heard confused and contradictory reports. Their own work was still crude and trifling, they had scarcely the skill with which to fashion the leg of a table, and they hoped that a visit to the Master would instruct and inspire them. The Master knew at once that the apprentices, who were both quite young, were very sure of themselves and were belittling themselves only out of courtly politeness, but the loneliness of his last months was soothed by their words of homage. Giving way to temptation, he moved aside to permit them to view his kingdom through the glass. True, they would be able to see nothing, for he had dropped fully beneath the floor of the visible, but perhaps they could somehow sense, as he could in the darkest depths of his mind, the splendor and precision of his invisible art. The first apprentice bent over the glass in the sloping top of the teakwood box. After a few moments he stepped aside and allowed the second apprentice to bend over the glass. When both had done looking, the younger of the two said that the Master’s work was indeed incomparable. Never in his short life had he seen anything so remarkable in both conception and execution. At once, the second apprentice gave voice to his admiration, saying that even in his dreams he had not dared to imagine such loveliness. And, indeed, it was the highest of all honors simply to be in the presence of so great an accomplishment. Then the two apprentices thanked the Master for dignifying them with his attention and respectfully took their leave. The maker of miniatures, knowing that they had seen nothing, that their words were hollow, and that they would never visit him again, returned with some impatience to his work; and as he sank below the crust of the visible world, into his dazzling kingdom, he understood that he had travelled a long way from the early days, that he still had far to go, and that, from now on, his life would be difficult and without forgiveness. 
A Better Angel “I wouldn’t do that if I were you,” she told me the first time we met. Six years old, I was digging under a log, looking for worms. This was back when my father still had all his property, and I could walk for the whole afternoon without leaving his orange groves. I spent a lot of time amusing myself that way, making up games, inventing friends to play with, since I really had none of my own, or looking for buried treasure. My sisters were all much older and hated to have me underfoot, so they’d draw fake maps, age them by beating them in the sand with a baseball bat and burning them around the edges, then send me off on quests. I fell for this sort of thing for years. She was sitting in a tree, gently tapping an orange that hung near her face, making it swing. My imaginary friends were not the kind you could see. I figured her for a smart-aleck picker’s daughter, since it was nearing the end of the season and the groves were full of Guatemalans. She wore a sleeveless yellow dress with a furry kitten face on the front—I remember that very clearly, and remember wondering later how, if she didn’t exist, I could have made that up. Her skin was very dark. Her hair hung past her lap. She looked to be about my age. I ignored her. Lifting the log up, I disturbed a nest of yellow jackets, which flew out, stinging my face and my neck and my hands. I could see her watching me while I slapped at them and yelled and cried. She said nothing but stood up on the branch and spread her wings out behind her, which amazed and frightened me. I tried to run home but could hardly breathe. I found a group of pickers having their lunch in the grass, and collapsed in front of them, swollen and squeaking. She came to see me in the hospital. High on I.V. Benadryl, I told anyone who would listen that there was an angel in the room, and the doctors and nurses found that charming. Even back then I was a quick and subtle thinker when I was stoned, and by the time my father asked me about it I had figured out that it would be best to pretend not to know what he was talking about. But when we were alone, and she stood silently at the foot of my bed, looking strange not just on account of the wings but because she was dressed as a doctor, with a white coat and a stethoscope and her hair done up in a smart bun, I asked her why she hadn’t warned me about the wasps. “I’m not that kind of angel,” she said. Though my father only ever knew a tenth of the trouble I’ve been in, I was still his least favorite child, and the last person he wanted taking care of him when he got very ill. But every one of my sisters was pregnant—one very much augmented and on purpose, and the other two accidents of fate. How they celebrated the coincidence, and then rued it when it forced them to bully me back to Florida from San Francisco. I was in clinic when they called, and it’s a testament to their power-of-three invincibility that they were able to blow through the phone tree and the two receptionists who routinely deny my existence when patients try to find me. “Dad is sick,” Charlotte said. “He’s been sick,” I said, because this had been going on for a year, and though nobody gets better from metastatic small-cell lung cancer, he’d been holding his own for months and months. “Dad is sicker,” Christine said, and Carmen added, “Much sicker!” She is the eldest and the (barely) most pregnant. “He’s in the hospital,” Christine said. “There’s an infection.” “In his bladder,” Charlotte said. There are two years between each of them, but they’ve always seemed like triplets, all with their furrowed brows and disapproving hatchet mouths, all as tall and fair as I am short and dark, all with the same blue eyes that seem just the right color for staring a person down. My eyes, like my father’s, are nearly black, and Carmen says I can hide anything in them. “A little cystitis,” I said. “So what?” “Dr. Klar says he’s very ill,” Christine said. “She doesn’t know if he’ll come out of the hospital,” Charlotte said. “She always says that,” I said. “She never knows. She’s an alarmist. She’s a worrier.” “You have to go!” they said all together. “You have to go,” I said. “You go, if it matters so much.” “We’re pregnant!” they said. And then the individual excuses: mild preëclampsia for Charlotte and Christine and a clotty calf for Carmen. They can’t travel from New York, where they live within waddling distance of one another. “People travel when they’re eight months pregnant,” I said. “People do it all the time!” Though I knew that they didn’t, and now the angel was sitting on my desk and shaking her head at me. “You’re a doctor,” they said, as if that should settle it, and I wanted to say that I’m impaired, and a pediatrician to boot. I could have confessed right then, to them and to the whole world—I am an impaired physician—and then started down the yellow brick road to rehab. Instead, I quietly hung up on them. The angel was still shaking her head. She was dressed to shock, in a filthy housedress, with a plastic shopping bag on her head and a dead cat wrapped around each foot. “I barely know him!” I shouted at her, but she didn’t respond. Then I told her I had a patient waiting, which she already knew, because there is nothing I’ve ever been able to hide from her. “Put that lady and her evil children behind you,” she said, not looking up as I swept by her. She did not like Mrs. Fontaine for the obvious reason, but what she had against her two kids I could not figure out, though she has always done that—pointed out the ones that would grow into car thieves or lottery fixers or murderers, as if I were supposed to smother them with the great pillow of righteous prevention when they were six months old. The Fontaines were waiting patiently in the exam room, Zebadiah splashing in the sink while his mother fed his sister and his aunt read Highlights. I locked the door, and Zebadiah toddled over to check it, an innocent part of our enterprise. “Baby,” Mrs. Fontaine said, meaning me and not her son, “how you been?” “It’s been a rough day,” I said. “Well, your friend has got just the thing for a rough day,” she said, and took a little foil-covered package from her diaper bag and laid it on the counter near the sink, and that is all we said about it, because one of our terms of business is a nearly silent sort of discretion. I put down my envelope and she took it, and when her package was in my pocket we talked about her babies. I examined Zebadiah and then his sister Lily, who was four months old, fat and happy and singing wordlessly as I listened to her heart and fiddled with her hips. The angel paced in the confines of the room, the cats going squish and squash as she stepped, and Lily seemed to be watching her. “A fire from Heaven should come down right now,” the angel said. Though the medicine was only in my pocket, just having it in my possession made it easier to ignore her. “She’s beautiful,” I said to Mrs. Fontaine. “She’s all right,” she said, ducking her head and smiling, and her sister reached out to take the baby and hold her for a moment and proclaim that she was indeed a beautiful girl, and then she handed her to her mother, who handed her to me, and then, without knowing why, I handed her back to the sister. Sometimes it happens like that, something entirely bearable, the baby smiling and laughing and going round and round, from hand to hand to hand, and her brother shouting “I’m beautiful, too!” and lifting his arms to be picked up, and all five of us laughing while the angel scowled impotently. I wanted it to go on forever. “Does everybody get an angel?” I asked her one day, about a month after I met her, when it finally occurred to me to wonder if every boy and girl had a guiding spirit that was invisible to me. I looked around my first-grade class, squinting to see them, the girls in plaid jumpers, the boys in blue pants, looking so ordinary except for their immaculate posture and drooping folded wings. “Only the ones who will be great or do great things. And sometimes being great is enough. The great things go out, generated as easily as thought or love. Do you understand?” I cannot describe how gentle her voice could be in those days. “No,” I said. So when we got home she took me into my father’s library, ignoring my pleas not to enter without his permission, and sat me down in front of the encyclopedia. I opened a volume at random, and she marked with her finger the men and women who had warranted an angel to guide them into their greatness. There were fewer than I’d expected, and as many who were greatly bad as greatly good. I flipped backward through the “A”s, familiar with only one in ten of the names she touched, making the letters shine in a way I could see forever after. Attila I knew, having just heard of him in history class, and taken part in a little skit for which I dressed up in my mother’s furs and shouted in front of the class with five other boys and the girl whose long black hair had landed her the part of the Hun. “But he was bad,” I said, and she said that not everybody listened to his angel. In medical school, I could not wait to get away from adult hospitals and adult medicines and adult patients, from their aching lower backs and chronic depression and get-me-out-of-work-related injuries. I hated especially the little old ladies with their parchment faces and frail broken hearts, who’d die if you so much as frowned at them. Even a half-dead preemie is more resilient. And I hated the smell—children are not so smelly to begin with, and as they get sick or die they do not give off that odor that fills up adult hospitals and blows out of the angel’s wings when she shakes them in agitation. It always seemed to cling to me after a particularly egregious fuckup in medical school, so for days afterward, just by sniffing my fingers, I’d be reminded of how I had almost killed this or that poor old zombie with my bad math. The angel seemed to like the hospital where my father was staying, but then she enjoyed death, or at least it seemed to excite her. She was always making a show of smelling people and predicting the hour of their demise. It became the only thing I was good at, distinguishing the really sick ones in the midst of the confusing daily crowd of patients that were presented to me as a student and then as a resident, though I never could remember how to save them. As we entered my father’s Florida hospital, she had a spring in her step, and though she was dressed as a bag lady once again, she’d exchanged her cats for tissue boxes and shined her wings and put on an elegant, if very dirty, hat. To her mind, I was doing the right thing, and so she had taken it easy on me during the trip, and now she bounced along like a schoolgirl. I think she would have been happier only if I had killed myself. The nurses did not look up when I walked past their station to the end of the hall where my father had his room, or when I hurried by in the opposite direction, fleeing from him. “Here he is,” the angel said when I walked in—she’d run ahead the last few feet and passed through the wall. She gestured toward him as if he were a new car or a sexy motorcycle in a showroom. When I’d last seen him, he was the same dour black-eyed man I’d known all my life, my six-foot-four, imperious, responsible reflection, a man who I always knew should have had an angel of his own. Now he was laid out diapered in a filthy bed, as bald and toothless and somehow as grand as Aslan on his table. He looked up at me when I walked in and said by way of greeting “You!” and managed to invest the word with equal measures of disappointment, accusation, and surprise. I dropped my book and candy box and ran out. Some nights as a resident, I would withdraw into the bathroom and leave the intern to flounder and drown, later claiming that I’d never got the frantic pages when in fact I had turned off my pager and was sitting on the toilet with my face in my hands or taking little hits of whatever I was really into that month. There was a bathroom near the elevator on my father’s floor of the hospital, a nice one-person arrangement with a lock on the door. The angel was there in just a few moments—I never know what delays her, when she can travel at the speed of guilt and sometimes seems to be everywhere at once. She berated me while I hid my face, her voice making the little room seem very full, all the “What do you think you’re doing?”s and “You get back there”s seeming to bounce off the white walls in discrete packages of sound. I am not this sort of doctor, I said to my hands. I am not any sort of doctor and I don’t know what to do about what’s back there in that room. And she said that even if you are the sort of doctor who doesn’t know anything about medicine, and even if you passed your certifying exams only because you paid a certain Dr. Gupta to bypass the pathetic security measures taken against cheats and impostors by the American Board of Pediatrics, you can still recognize a patient at the extremes of abandonment and grief, and even you can do the smallest human thing to improve his lot. In answer, I gave her a little toot. Not Mrs. Fontaine but another supplier, someone who had been a sort of girlfriend, though only snortable heroin had brought us together, had had a little horn on her key chain which she would bring out in the face of any sort of adversity—a flat tire or a broken foot or syphilis, syphilis being a two-toot trouble. “Toot them away!” she’d say, and laugh really quite innocently. She was beaten by a boyfriend more passionate but less gentle than me, and died one night in the E.R. at the General Hospital while I was on duty seeing children. I recognized her worked-over corpse when I went into the trauma room to fetch a warm blanket for a cold baby. With just the smallest hit the angel changed. She’d barely warned me not to do it before she was stretching and shaking her wings, and there was that awful stench for a moment, and then there was another odor, fresh grass and cookies and new snow on the sidewalk. And she cast off her haggery with a few shakes of her head, her eyes bright now but not icy like my sisters’, and with several sweeps of her fingers—it’s always as if she were primping for me—she combed the tangles out of her hair. Three times she shook her hips and the housedress became a lovely blue sari, and her pretty feet were naked. “Take that!” I stuttered at her. “Better have another,” she said, and I did. Then she stood in front of me with her hands on my shoulders, steadying them while they shook. It wasn’t the first time that I’d felt as if I were flying backward: the toilet was a vessel in the air propelled by weeping, and with her hands she was steering me. “Do I have to go back there?” I asked her, when I was feeling better. “Not yet, my love,” she said. “Not until you are good and ready.” When I was a child, she was always good, but this is not to say that she was never awful. Though many days she was so ordinary a tagalong that I hardly thought of her as an angel, every so often she would put on such majesty that it made me cower. One day in fifth grade, I was half listening to Mrs. Khemlani’s talk about cowboys and Indians. “History always moves west,” Mrs. Khemlani said, because that was one of the truisms she announced at the beginning of the semester, and she liked to point out how right she was about things at some point in every lesson. Books will always be burned, she said, and women are always second-class citizens, and history from the dawn of time has always swept in a westward circle around the globe. I was daydreaming about Chinese ladies and their very small feet, about which we’d just been learning in social studies. I was fascinated by the pictures we’d seen, and had held on to the little cardboard shoe I’d made, though it was supposed to be drying on the windowsill with the others, so that I could turn it over and over in my hand. The angel was done up that day in the dress and skin of a Chinese girl—sometimes her form obliged my fancy, though I knew I could not control it, having tried to make her take on the shape of a dog or a corncob by staring at her and concentrating until she told me to stop it. On little feet, crippled feet, she hobbled up to the front of the class when she heard Mrs. Khemlani talking about the grand sweep of history, a look on her face that I had learned to associate with anger over something stupid she’d just heard. I was used to getting lectures that no one else could hear, or having her place a hand on a book I was reading to say, “Listen, it was not so.” “Once, the most important city in the world was Nanking,” Mrs. Khemlani was saying. “Then it was Athens and then it was Rome. Later it was Vienna and after that it was Paris and then London and then Boston and then New York. But, look here, now San Francisco is becoming most important, and where will it be after that? My husband says outer space, because he is an engineer and has a very scientific mind, but I say west, and so back to the East!” Cindy Hacklight, my neighbor across the aisle, asked what this had to do with cowboys or Indians, but Mrs. Khemlani’s response was drowned out for me by the angel’s voice. “Not so!” she shouted, stamping her foot at the head of the class, standing behind Mrs. Khemlani and growing out of her child’s form. It was the first time I’d ever seen her in the guise of an adult, and she made herself huge. Her head scraped the ceiling and her wings spread from one end of the class to the other. “Not west!” she said, and pictures started to flash in her wings, men whispering in dark rooms, and soldiers at war, and tanks rolling through villages as they did in old newsreels, and people sitting quietly together. She had stopped saying words but her wings were certainly speaking to me, images were blazing out of the white depths and, more than that, feelings were radiating off them, so that I knew sadness and joy and rage and sourceless love together and in succession, the images and feelings a speech through which she communicated to me the true sweep of history. “It’s toward you!” she said, unnecessarily, because she had already made me see myself as riding an enormous tide. Sitting at my desk, I could feel the relentless pressure of history under my feet, pushing me up through some mysterious medium toward a goal I could not describe except by its brightness, but I could see it in that moment very clearly. I leaped up from my desk, dropping my little torture shoe, and threw my hands above my head and gave my best up-with-people “Hooray!” I was eleven years old and thought I understood what the angel had in store for me, and felt sufficient to it in a way I can’t comprehend now. “Yes,” said Mrs. Khemlani, who thought I was applauding her theory. “Hooray! Hooray for history!” Better to be a garbageman than a doctor when your father gets sick. If I were a tree surgeon or a schoolteacher or a truffle-snuffler, or even a plain old junkie, then sickness would just be sickness, something to be borne and not something I was supposed to be able to defeat. For months, my sisters had wheedled me into meddling telephone consultations with my father’s doctors, and I had pretended to understand what they were saying, and offered ungrounded opinions to them and to my sisters and my father. Even if I hadn’t cheated my way through medical school, the task of recalling whatever I’d learned of pathology in my second year would have been beyond me. I make my living praising the beauty of well children. I love babies and I love ketamine, and that’s really why I became a pediatrician, not because I hate illness or wanted to make anybody better, or believed that I could. But nobody deducts the credit I deserve for being impaired and a fake. The doctors hear that you are a doctor and they enlist you in their hopeless task, forking over the greater portion of the guilt that is packaged with that hopeless task. The nurses hear that you are a doctor and immediately hate you for judging their work. As it became more and more obvious day by day that my father was going to die, the angel, who has catalogued my every failing and should have known better, berated me for failing to save his life. It was the least I could do, she told me, because even this miracle is nothing compared with what I was supposed to grow up to achieve. And if I could do this then everything else would turn around. It was the first hope, besides death, she’d offered in a long time. “He is not an enemy you can outwit,” Mrs. Scott, one of my father’s Tuesday chemotherapy buddies, said. He had got out of the hospital a week after I arrived home, and for another month I brought him back every week for his infusions. He would fall asleep during the infusion, and leave me alone to talk to her. He had told me that he hated the way she whored after hope—every week something else was going to save her life—and I’d have thought he was faking it just to escape her if I hadn’t known firsthand the beautiful thick sleep that I.V. Benadryl can bring. Every session, she began by telling him about her latest discovery in the pages of Prevention or Ayurvedic Weekly or High Colonic Fancy, and five minutes into it he’d tell her that he felt oblivion pressing on his face, and five minutes after that his chin was on his chest and he was snoring more softly than he does in natural slumber. And, because I could not shut her up, I always suggested a game of checkers or cards or backgammon. Dr. Klar’s infusion salon was packed with those sorts of diversions. Most often, we played chess, a game that usually generated a lot of thoughtful silence—she’d put a finger to her temple and stare so hard at the board that I expected it to start vibrating in sympathy—but today she was distracted and a little agitated, maybe because she was getting steroids, or maybe because my angel was sitting so close to her, and despite her optimism she was getting sicker from week to week, and I swear that as they get closer to death people can start to feel the angel’s ugly emanations. “It’s not a game of chess, you know,” she continued, when I said nothing. “I think I just fully understood that right now.” “What’s that?” “You know,” she said, putting her hand on her chest. Like my father, she had lung cancer. “Oncoloqatsi,” she whispered. That was the name she had assigned to her disease, and she always whispered it, as if to speak his name too loud would be to summon strength to him. “Oh, him,” I said. “I know it suggests a game, how you move and then he moves—you pick a chemo and he counters with a mutation, or you find the perfect herb to overcome him and he produces another measure of resistance, and the doctors play the game from organ to organ until your whole body is a board. They even doodle you up like one.” She pulled down the neck of her blouse to show a piece of skin below her collarbone—it was just a cross to mark a target for radiation. “But this is only the surface. Look deeper, like I have, and you will see the truth.” “I think I’ve got you,” I said, moving my bishop illegally. She didn’t even look down. “How often have I heard that from him? But he never has got me, and it’s not because of my disciplined mind. It’s because I have learned to resist him in the very marrow of my being. The very marrow, Doctor. It’s not a lesson you would have learned in school, but I want you to learn it. I want your father to learn it. I have disciplined my soul against this enemy, and he must do it, too.” The angel sidled closer while Mrs. Scott was talking. She leaned over and took a sniff of the lady’s turbaned head. “Three weeks,” she said. And then she put her nose close to the shining skin of my father’s forehead—every day his skin seemed to get a little thinner or stretch a little tighter, until I was sure that just the faintest rubbing pressure would reveal the dull white bone underneath—and said the same thing. “Shut up!” I told her. “It’s hard to hear,” Mrs. Scott said. “I know it’s not your common wisdom, but you don’t have to be rude.” Dr. Klar came in before I could answer or apologize. “Hallo, everybody!” she called out. Thirty years in southeast Florida had not dulled her accent much. This appealed to my father, who liked the fact that she was German, order and discipline having always added up to success in his life. Just being in sight of her immaculate white coat I felt accused of slovenliness and failure. “Here is the grandma of your better nature,” the angel said the first time she saw her. My father woke at the sound of her voice and smiled at her. “Charlotte?” he said. Soon after I took him home from the hospital, he started mistaking people and places, thinking that a nurse or some solicitous church lady was one of my sisters, or thinking that he was in his childhood home, in Chicago, calling out for a dog who had died sixty years ago. Me he never mistook for anyone else, though he often seemed surprised to see me. “Still here?” he said some mornings. “It’s Dr. Klar!” she said brightly. She said everything brightly, even things like “What’s the use?” or “If he’s alive in a month it will be a miracle.” She was one of those oncologists who speak life out of one side of their mouth and death out of the other. For my father she had only good news, for me only bad. “Darling,” my father said, closing his eyes again and still smiling. “When is the baby coming?” “Soon,” she said. “The baby is fine. Everything is fine!” She reached out to pat his shoulder, but I caught her hand. “The bad shoulder,” I said. He had metastases all over his body, but his shoulder and his back bothered him the most. He nodded his head and fell back asleep. “How is the pain, then?” “Worse. And we’re out of Percocet. He’s out of Percocet.” “Easy enough to fix,” she said. “An ounce of meditation is worth a pound of Percocet,” Mrs. Scott said. “In certain traditions!” Dr. Klar said brightly, then she beckoned me out into the hall. “I think it’s time to stop,” she said. “Stop what?” “Stop hiding!” the angel shouted. “Stop the chemo,” Dr. Klar said. We had this conversation every week. “What are we doing? What good is coming of it? Why are you coming here every week, when he could be at home?” “He doesn’t want to stop. He wants to keep going.” “Just put out your hand to him and he will be healed,” the angel said. “Just put out your hand to him and you will undo all the pain you’ve caused me.” “Does he know what he wants?” Dr. Klar asked. “He’s always confused here. You keep it too cold. And the Benadryl before the infusion makes him sleepy.” “Carl,” she said, putting her hand on my shoulder the same way she did with him, comfort for someone who is already dead. “It really is getting to be time.” And the angel said, “It has always been time!” Things started to go wrong between the angel and me after Cindy Hacklight showed me her pooty in seventh grade. Cindy had made a sort of cottage industry of showing her pooty to anyone—girl or boy—who would give her five dollars, a large sum back then, before high-school inflation. You got the sense that she didn’t really care about the money but understood that what she had wasn’t something to show for free. “Go not that way,” the angel said. She saved onerous fancy-speak like that for her most serious moments, for things she really meant, for things that really mattered. But I went with Cindy into the woods behind the gym, where she leaned against a narrow poplar and swore me not to secrecy but to respect for what she was about to show me. It was the one promise I’ve managed to keep all my life—I maintained my reverence for her bald little pooty then, in seventh grade, and ever after, even when I met it again one summer when we were both home from college. “Turn your face!” the angel shouted as Cindy lifted her skirt. And the angel was ugly for the first time, having put on the apricot face of our headmistress, Ms. Carnegie. I looked back and forth between them, startled by the contrast, how beautiful was the one and how ugly the other, until Cindy, holding her skirt up with one hand, put the other on my head and turned my face to her. “If you’re going to respect it, you’ve got to look at it,” she said. The angel berated me for days afterward—how mild it seems in retrospect, compared with what she dished out in later years. “How is a seducing pooty like a grand destiny?” she kept asking me, and then she’d answer her own question, and eventually she trained me to give the right answer. “Exactly not at all,” I said. Yet awakening lust wasn’t the problem, though eventually the lust that had awakened made me a monster and a fiend, and I would waste, and still waste, half my life in thrall to it, screwing whoever would hold still for me in high school and forever beyond, to the exclusion of work and food and sleep, though never drugs. I think it was the first time that something so ordinary had been as attractive to me as the extraordinary things the angel said I must dedicate myself to. When I lay with Cindy on the scented ground in my father’s orange groves, what I experienced was a very ordinary comfort, and when she raised her skirt in the woods I understood that I could want—so badly—something the angel thought I shouldn’t. My father had a little bell that he rang when he wanted something. Mornings, I would hear it and rise from the single bed I’d slept in when I was a boy, and go downstairs to see what he wanted. At first, after he came home, it was to be helped out into the yard to sit in the sun, and then it was coffee or breakfast when he could not get those for himself, and then it was just to be turned or to retrieve a blanket that had migrated past his hips, and then finally he would just ring it and ring it as constantly as a beggar Santa, not knowing what he wanted, in which case I gave him a pain pill (and took one myself, always supremely faithful to my rigorous policy of one for you and one for me), and that would settle him. Janie Finn was our hospice nurse. I always hated hospice and hospice people, nurses with smart heels and smother pillows, and the women in charge of the palliative-care programs, who seemed universally to be dark-eyed and dark-haired and very tall. They dressed like nineteenth-century Jesuits and cherished their crushes on death. But Janie brought me liquid morphine and Ativan—and either of those would be enough to make me forgive anybody a mere crime of being. “Your jab and your hook,” she said in the kitchen the day she met us. She had placed the bottles in my hand. I hadn’t even had any yet and already I could feel a lovely warmth coming out of them; they seemed to catch the afternoon light in a very special way. Janie set her feet and threw out two quick punches. “A one-two against the pain,” she said. “One-two! Give it a try.” With a bottle in each hand, I gave it a try, and, yes, my fists seemed to have a certain heft to them. I threw a punch at the angel and she actually ducked. I made a lot of trips back and forth to the pharmacy, and imagined the little man in the back filling the bottles from two big coolers of bright, pure drug, and dreamed of following him back there to put my mouth to the spigots, because I was sure that if I could just ingest enough then the angel would be permanently transformed—and if it happened also to be enough to kill me, so be it. I was sure that she would take me someplace bearable. How she hated those little bottles. “Just put out your hand,” the angel kept telling me. “Touch him and make him well.” Though she had hardly screeched at me in those last few days, it seemed like an even worse torture to have her demand the impossible of me so consistently, and to blame me for the fact that my father was getting sicker every day. It made me feel worse than anything she’d ever said to me. I could not ignore a homeless person on the street without her detailing the ways in which I was responsible for his misery, all those missing policies and initiatives, as if the hundred thousand sins of omission that were my unfulfilled destiny added up to national as well as individual catastrophe. It was easier to bear when she blamed me for the woes of strangers, even when those strangers fell out of the sky or burned in their churches. I could make little children faceless, but my father could never be anonymous to me, and as the weeks went by in Florida I believed her more than ever when she told me that every wrong thing I’d done could be redeemed in a single miracle, and that if I could make my father well with one hand then with the other I could do the same for the whole world. “Make me dinner,” my father said, so I did. It was only three in the afternoon, but no matter what time of day it was, the meal was always dinner, and dinner was always the same thing: a chocolate milkshake with a banana and a raw egg and a little Ativan in it. When I brought it to him, he took a sip and he was done. He turned his head and opened his mouth like a baby bird—this was the signal for pain medication, so I took the morphine out of my pocket and squeezed in a few drops. He smacked his lips and turned back to the television, then closed his eyes. “Now I’ll take a nap,” he said. “Go to your room.” I went outside instead. It was another brilliant blue afternoon. He kept saying he wanted a storm. We mostly watched television when he could stand to have me in the living room with him, and we always watched the weather. It was hurricane season, but all we’d had was near-misses. “Look at that!” he’d say, pointing at a gigantic storm swirling across the Atlantic, or he would shout “Fool!” at the hapless reporters clinging to light poles and declaiming the magnificently obvious. Hurricanes had been the enemy when I was a child—they tore up our trees and scattered the fruit. But now he spoke the names of the female hurricanes with great fondness. Our nearest neighbor was a mile away, so nobody asked what I was doing when I hung the hurricane shutters on the living-room and kitchen windows, and my father asked no questions from inside. He slept so heavily now that a few times I thought he had already died. I nozzled up the hose and propped it so that it would spray on the shutters, and at dusk I turned it on. The angel was half ugly and half kind, because I was half stoned. “You play tricks on him when you should be calling him out of his bed.” “It’s not a trick,” I said. I spent another few moments watching the sky and taking just the smallest nip of morphine and then went in. When I came into the living room with a candle, he asked what was going on. “A big storm,” I said. “Finally!” he said. We had a party during the storm, two more dinners and Ativan and morphine all around, and he was more alert for a while, telling me stories of hurricanes past, of ruined crops and toddlers surviving miraculously when a tornado stole them from their homes and deposited them in the next county. “I know you have secrets,” he said suddenly. And then he said, “Your sister tried to drown you when you were two—do you remember?” “No,” I said, and asked him to tell me more. But then he thought I was my sister Carmen. “How could you hurt a little baby like that?” he asked, and I said I’d done a lot of bad things. “Tell me about it!” the angel said. I took another drop of morphine, right in front of my father, because his eyes were closed, but then as if he could smell it he opened his mouth, so I gave him some, too. And then I took some more, and gave him some more, and then switched to the Ativan. But still the angel was a harpy. “Put out your hand!” she said. “Another angel is coming!” “It’s all right,” my father said. And then he whispered, “Your mother tried to smother him once. Just a little, with a blanket, and she told me about it right away. But she was depressed, and that’s what you do when you’re depressed.” “If you were a great man,” the angel said, slurring now, “if you were President—and you could have been President—then I would be a national conscience!” “Shut up,” I said quietly to her, thinking that I had pitched my voice so that she’d hear it and he would not. “Don’t tell me to shut up, sassy girl!” he said, and I gave him some more morphine. Though he hadn’t asked for it, he sucked at the dropper when I put it in his mouth. “You can do it,” she said, her face flashing beautiful for a moment. And she showed me how, putting out a hand that was soft and white on one side and hairy and rough on the other. She held it over his chest. “All you have to do is finally stop fucking up.” “You’re ruining it,” I told her, and took a swig of the Ativan, just a nip, really, but you are supposed to take it drop by drop and I knew why as soon as I took the swig. It was too good, and it made everything too beautiful, not just the angel, whose ugly skin flew off as if blown by a real hurricane, so that her wings were clean again and her naked face and body were open and compassionate. Even my father’s face became beautiful, still yellow and sunken but now utterly lovely, and how strange to see a beautiful face that looked so much like my own. The room shone with something that was not light, and there really was a thrilling storm blowing outside and shaking the walls. Every so often, he would reach blindly for something not there in front of him, and he did this now, so I reached with him, and the angel reached, too, all three of us reaching out our hands together. “You have to be ready at any time to have the conversation,” Janie Finn had told me, meaning the conversation where you sorted everything out and said your goodbyes, and the dying person sorted everything out and lost all his regrets. “You talk about things and then you let go,” she said, making an expansive gesture with her hands, as if she were setting free a bunch of doves or balloons. It was just the sort of thing hospice people always say. Suddenly I thought that this must be the conversation, as we opened our mouths in turn and shared something important and lovely, and the whole room seemed like a great relief to me and I knew it must to him, too. The angel was struggling, though, seeming to wrestle with herself. Her face was beautiful but her body was ugly again, and my bottles were almost empty. My father’s mouth was open, yet I took the last of the morphine myself and gave him a drop of water. He opened his eyes and looked at me and said it again—“You!”—and he shook his head, then closed his eyes again. But when I put my head on his chest he didn’t push it away, and though one hand was reaching out blindly above him, he let me put the other on my neck. “I want a better angel, Dad,” I told him. “That’s all I need.” “I’ll take a nap now,” he said. “Batten down the hatches and go to your room.” But I stayed where I was and took a nap myself. I woke up the next morning on the couch, the fake rain still drumming at the shuttered window, with no recollection of how I had got across the room. The angel was in the corner, her face ugly, but only in that way that all weeping faces are ugly. I sat down next to my father, who must have died very recently, because though his face was cold and his open eyes already had the look of spoiling grapes, his chest and his belly were warm. I put my hands on his chest, and my head on my hands, and stayed that way for a long time before I called Janie to tell her that it had happened. 
Gleason John Stregg opened his front door wide and there was Gleason, his girlfriend Jade’s little brother. The boy stood, frail and skinny, in the snow with a sad look on his face and a gun in his hand. As the president of the New Otto Bank, of New Otto, North Dakota, Stregg had trained his employees to stay relaxed in situations like this. Small-town banks were vulnerable, and Stregg had actually been held up twice. One of the robbers had even been a methamphetamine addict. He did not flinch now. “What can I do for you?” he said to Gleason. His voice was loud and calm. His wife, Carmen, was reading in the living room. “You can come with me, Mr. Stregg,” Gleason said, leading slightly to the left with the barrel of the gun. Behind him, at the curb, a low-slung Oldsmobile idled. Stregg could see no one else in it. Gleason was just nineteen years old, and Stregg now wished that he’d joined the Army as Jade had said he was threatening to do. Except that, if he had, he might be carrying something better than an old, jammed-looking .22-calibre pistol. From the living room Carmen called, “Who is it?,” and Gleason whispered, “Say ‘Kids selling candy.’ ” “Kids selling candy,” Stregg called back. “Tell them we don’t want any,” Carmen yelled. “Say you’re going for a little walk,” Gleason said. “I’m going for a little walk.” “In this snow?” his wife cried. “You’re crazy!” “Put your coat on,” Gleason said. “So she doesn’t see it still hanging on the rack. Then come with me. Shut the door.” As he headed down the walkway with Gleason behind him, Stregg began to hope that he would find Jade hidden in the car. That this was some odd kind of prank. Some desperate way for her to get to see him. It was evening, and the windows of his house cast a soft, golden light all the way down the landscaped twist of paving stones. There was a band of utter darkness where a stone wall and close-grown arborvitae cast a shadow onto the boulevard. The car sat beyond that, in the wintry shimmer of a street lamp. “Get in,” Gleason said. Stregg stumbled a bit in the icy snow, then let himself into the passenger’s side. The back seat was empty, he saw. Gleason held the pistol just inside the sleeve of his large topcoat, and kept it pointed at the windshield as he rounded the front of the car and ducked quickly into the driver’s seat. “I’m going to ease out of this light,” he said. Gleason kept his gun out and his mild eyes trained on Stregg as he put the car in drive and rolled forward into the darkness beyond the street lamp’s glow. “Time to talk.” He put the car in park. Gleason was a nervous-looking boy with large brown eyes, a thin face, and a mop of toast-brown hair flopping over one eye and bending into his collar. There were little wisps of down on his chin. He was artistic. This sort of behavior, Stregg knew, did not come naturally to Gleason. He’d probably had to get slightly drunk in order to drive to the Stregg residence with a gun and ring the bell. And what would he have done if Carmen had answered? Would he have pretended to be selling candy bars for some high-school trip? Did he have a Plan B? Stregg stared at Gleason’s gaunt little face. The boy didn’t seem likely to put a bullet in him. Plus, his hands looked too weak to pull back the slide. Stregg knew, too, that his presence in Gleason’s car had depended on some implicit collaboration on his own part. “So,” Stregg repeated, in the patient voice he used with jumpy investors, “what can I do for you?” “I think a hundred thousand dollars should be just about right,” Gleason said. “A hundred thousand dollars.” Gleason was silently expectant. Stregg shivered a little, then he pulled his coat tightly around himself and felt like crying. He had cried a lot with Jade. She had brought all his tears up to the surface. Sometimes they rushed out, and sometimes they trickled in long tracks down his cheeks. She’d said that there was no shame in it, and she’d cried along with him until their weeping slowed erotically and sent them careening through each other’s body, toward a dark peace. Stregg heard himself make a sound, an Ah of doubt. There was something about the monetary figure that struck him as wretched. “It’s just not enough,” he said. Gleason looked perplexed. “Look, if she keeps the baby—and you know I want her to keep the baby—she’s going to need a house. Maybe in Fargo, you know? A hundred thousand isn’t enough for a decent house. And then there are clothes, and, what, car seats, that sort of thing. I’ve never had a child, but I know they need certain equipment. Also, she needs a good, safe car. A hundred thousand isn’t enough for everything. It’s not a future.” “O.K.,” Gleason said, after a while. “What do you suggest?” “Besides,” Stregg went on, thinking out loud, “the thing is, in for a penny in for a pound. A hundred thousand would be missed just as much as a larger amount would be. My wife sees our accounts. It might as well be . . . Let me think. If it’s under half a million, the papers will say nearly half a million anyway. So it might as well be over half a million. But not seven hundred thousand, because they’ll call that three-quarters of a million. So let’s say six hundred thousand.” Gleason was quiet. “That’s just over half a million,” he said finally. Stregg nodded. “See? But that’s a doable thing. Only there has to be a reason. A very good reason.” “Well,” Gleason said, “maybe you were going to start some kind of business?” Stregg looked at Gleason in surprise. “Well, yes, that’s good, a business. Only then we’d need to actually have the business, keep it going, make a paper trail, and that’d lead to more deception, and the taxes . . . It’d all lead back to me. It’s too complicated. We need one catastrophic reason.” “A tornado,” Gleason said. “I mean, in winter, maybe not. A blizzard.” “And where does the money come in?” “The money gets lost in the blizzard?” Stregg looked disappointed, and Gleason shrugged weakly. They both cast about for a time, mulling this over. Then Gleason said, “Question.” “Yes?” “How come you don’t just get divorced from your wife and marry Jade? The way you’re talking, it sounds to me like you love her. So maybe I didn’t have to come here and threaten you with this.” He wagged the gun. “But I’m not getting why you don’t just leave your wife and run off with Jade, or something, if you love her.” “I do love her.” “Then what’s the problem?” “Look at me, Gleason.” Stregg put his hands out. “Do you think she’d stay with me just for me? Now, be honest. Without the money. Without the job. Just me.” Gleason shrugged again. “You’re not so bad, man.” “Yes, I am,” Stregg said. “I’m sixteen years older than Jade and I’m half bald. If I had my hair, then maybe, or if I was good-looking or athletic. But I’m a realist. I see what I am. The money helps. I’m not saying that that’s the only reason Jade cares for me, not at all—Jade is a pure soul—but the money helps. If I divorced Carmen now, I wouldn’t have a job. I took the bank over from her father, who is, yes, in his nineties and in a nursing home, but perfectly lucid. Carmen is a fifty-one-per-cent shareholder. Besides, here’s the thing. Carmen has done nothing wrong. She has never, to my knowledge, betrayed me with another man, nor has she neglected me, within her own powers. Until I met Jade last year, you understand, I was reasonably happy. Carmen and I had sex for twenty minutes once a week and went to Florida in the winter; we gave dinner parties and stayed at the lake for two weeks every summer. In the summer, we had sex twice a week and I cooked all our meals.” Gleason looked uncomfortable. “The thing is, we’re the last small, independent bank in this part of the state and pretty soon we’ll get bought out, swallowed up. That will change my situation. I’d like to be with Jade. I plan to be with Jade. When I can. If she’ll have me.” Now Stregg leaned searchingly toward Gleason. “What does your presence here mean, exactly? Did she send you?” “No.” “What happened? She won’t talk to me right now, you know.” “Well, she told me about her being pregnant. She was kind of upset, and I thought you were ditching her. That’s what I thought. You know, it’s always been just the two of us. She raised me after our mother O.D.’d. I was only eleven when it happened, and she was twenty-one. I’d die for her.” “Of course,” Stregg said. “Of course you would. Let that be our bond, Gleason. Both of us would die for her. But here’s the thing. Only one of us—right now, anyway—only one of us can provide for her.” “So what should we do?” “Something has come to me,” Stregg said. “Now, I’m going to propose something that may surprise you. It may seem bizarre, but give it a chance, hear me out, Gleason, because I think it will work. Are you ready?” Gleason nodded. “Say you kidnap my wife.” Gleason gave a strangled yelp. “No, just listen. Tomorrow night you do the very same thing as tonight. You come to the door. Carmen answers. You show her the gun and you come into the house. You have some strapping tape. A pair of scissors. At gunpoint, you order me to tie Carmen up. Once she’s taken care of, you tie me up and say to me, in her hearing, that if I don’t deliver six hundred thousand dollars in cash to you by the next day you’ll kill her. You have to say that, I’m afraid. Then you bring her out to the car—not this car, a rental. Don’t let her see the license plates.” “I don’t think so,” Gleason said. “I think you’re describing a federal crime.” “Well, yes,” Stregg said. “But is it really a crime if nothing happens? I mean, you’ll be really, really nice to Carmen. That’s a given. You’ll take her to a secure out-of-town location, like your house. Keep her blindfolded. Put her in the back bedroom where you keep the freezer. Lay down a mattress so she’s comfortable. It’ll just be for a day. I’ll drop off the money. Then you’ll let her out somewhere on the other side of town. She may have a long walk—be sure she brings shoes and a coat. I don’t think we should tell Jade.” “Jade’s gone, anyway.” Stregg’s heart lurched. He’d somehow known it. “Where?” he managed to ask. “Her friend Bonnie took her to Bismarck, just to clear her head. They’ll be back on Friday.” “Oh, then this is perfect,” Stregg said. Gleason looked at him with great, silent eyes. His and Jade’s eyes were very similar, Stregg thought, and he suddenly felt extremely sorry for Gleason. He was so wimpy, so young, and what would he do with Carmen? She worked out on a stationary bicycle and lifted free weights. Gleason kept shifting the gun from hand to hand, probably because his wrist was getting tired. “By the way, where did that gun come from?” Stregg asked. “It used to belong to my mother’s boyfriend.” “Is it loaded?” “Of course it is.” “You don’t have ammunition for it, do you?” Stregg said. “But that’s good. We don’t want any accidents.” When Gleason knocked on the door the following evening, John Stregg pretended to have fallen asleep. His heart beat wildly as the quiet transaction occurred in the entryway. Then Carmen walked into the room with her arms out in front of her and her square honest face blanched in shock. She made a gesture to her husband, asking for help, but Stregg was looking at Gleason and trying not to give everything away by laughing. Gleason wore a cinnamon-brown knitted ski mask with white piping around the mouth, nose, and eyes. His coat and his pants were a baked-looking brown. He looked like a scrawny gingerbread boy, except that he was wearing surgical gloves. “I’m going to throw up,” Carmen moaned when Gleason ordered Stregg to tie her up. “No, you’ll be O.K.,” Stregg said. “You’ll be O.K.” Tears dripped down his face and onto her hands as he tried firmly but gently to do his job. His wife’s hands were so beautifully cared for, the nails lacquered with soft peach. Let nothing go wrong, he prayed. “Look, he’s crying,” Carmen said accusingly to Gleason, before her husband tied a scarf between her teeth, knotting it tightly behind her head. “Nnnnnn!” “I’m sorry,” Stregg said. “Now it’s your turn,” Gleason said. The two of them suddenly realized that Gleason would have to put down the gun and somehow subdue Stregg, and their eyes got very wide. They stared at each other. “Sit down in that chair,” Gleason said at last. “Take the tape and loop it around your legs.” He proceeded to instruct Stregg in how to do most of the work himself. He even had him cut strips to the appropriate length, all of which Stregg thought was quite ingenious of Gleason. Once Stregg had secured himself to the chair and Gleason had gagged him, Gleason told Carmen to get on her feet. But she refused. Even as anxiety coursed through him, Stregg felt obscurely proud of his wife. She rolled around on the floor, kicking like a dolphin, until Gleason finally pounced on her and pressed the barrel of the gun to her temple. Straddling her, he untied the gag in her mouth and rummaged in his pocket. He drew out a couple of pills. “You leave me no choice,” he said. “I’m going to have to ask you to dry-swallow these.” “What are they?” Carmen asked. “Just sedatives,” Gleason said. Then he spoke to Stregg. “Leave six hundred thousand dollars in a garbage bag next to the ‘Adopted by the Flickertail Club’ highway sign. No marked bills. No police. Or I’ll kill your wife. You’re being watched.” “We have the exact same taste.”Buy the print » Stregg was surprised that Carmen took the pills, but then for some reason she’d always been that way about taking pills—a willing patient. Now she turned out to be a willing hostage, and Gleason had no more trouble with her. He cut the tape on her legs and put a hobble on her ankles. She walked out dreamily, her coat draped over her shoulders, and Stregg was left alone. It took him about half an hour of patient wiggling to release himself from the tape, which he left looped around the chair. Now what? He wanted desperately to call Jade, to talk to her, to hear the slow music of her voice. But for some hours he sat on the couch with his head in his hands, replaying the whole scenario. Then he started thinking ahead. Tomorrow he would go in early. He would transfer money from their retirement account into the bank’s general account. Then he would go into the safe and take out the cash and get into the car. He would drive out to the highway sign and make the drop. It would all be done before 9 A.M., then Gleason would free Carmen west of town, where she could walk home or find a ride. There would be police. An investigation. Newspapers. But no insurance was involved. The amount wasn’t excessive. It would use up most of their retirement account, but Carmen still had the bank. It would all blow over. A blizzard came up and Carmen got lost and might have frozen to death had a farmer not pulled her from a ditch. Luckily, Gleason had scooped up her snow boots as they left, and her coat was one of those long down coats, quilted past her knees. She suffered no frostbite, and though she ran a fever for six days, she did not develop pneumonia. Stregg nursed her with care, waited on her hand and foot, took a leave from the bank. He was shocked by how the kidnapping had affected her. Over the next weeks, she lost a great deal of weight and spoke irrationally. To the police she described her abductor as quite large, muscular, with firm hands, a big nose, and a deep voice. Her kidnapper was stunningly handsome, she said, a god! It was all so strange that Stregg almost felt like correcting her. Though he was delighted, on the one hand, that she had the description so wrong, her embroidery disturbed him. And when he brought her home from the hospital she was so restless. In the evenings, she wanted to talk instead of watching television or reading the many magazines that she subscribed to. She had questions. “Do you love me?” “Of course I love you.” “Do you really, really love me? I mean, would you have died for me if the kidnapper had made you make a choice? ‘It’s her or you’—say he’d said that. Would you have stepped forward?” “I was tied to the chair,” Stregg said. “Metaphorically.” “Of course, metaphorically. I would have.” “I wonder.” She began to look at him skeptically, measuring him. At night, now, she wanted lots of reassurance. She seduced him and scared him, saying things like “Make me helpless.” “He made me helpless,” she said one morning. “But he was kind, very kind to me.” Stregg took her to the doctor, who said that it was post-traumatic stress and prescribed antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications, which didn’t help much. “Hold me tighter—squeeze the breath out of me.” “Look at me. Don’t close your eyes.” “Don’t say something meaningless. I want the truth.” It was terrifying, how she’d opened up. What had Gleason done? Nothing, Gleason insisted on the phone. Stregg was ashamed to feel repelled by his wife’s awkward need—it was no different from his own need. If she’d been this way before, he recognized, he might have responded. He might not have turned to Jade. He might have been amazed, grateful. But when Carmen threw herself onto him at night he felt only despair, and she could sense his distance. She grew bony and let her hair go gray, long, unruly, beautiful. She was strange. She was sinking. She looked at him with the eyes of a drowning person. Stregg went to visit his father-in-law at the nursing home. The place did not depress him, though he could see how it might depress others. His father-in-law was resting on his single bed, on top of a flowered polyester coverlet. He’d pulled an afghan over himself, one that Carmen had knitted, in intricate stripes of green and blue. He was listening to the radio. “It’s me. It’s John.” “Ah.” Stregg took his father-in-law’s hand in his. The old man’s skin was dry and very soft, nearly translucent. His face was thin, pale, almost saintly, though he’d been ruthless when he was younger, a cutthroat banker, a survivor. “I’m glad you’re here,” Stregg’s father-in-law said. “How’s my little girl?” “She’s just fine.” No one had told Carmen’s father what had happened. “She has a cold,” Stregg lied. “She’s staying in bed today. She’s probably curled up around her hot-water bottle, sleeping.” “The poor kid.” Stregg resisted telling Carmen’s father, as he always used to, “I’ll take good care of her.” How wrong, and how ironic, would that be? The old man’s hand relaxed, and Stregg realized that he had fallen asleep. Still, he continued to sit beside the bed holding his father-in-law’s slender and quite elegant hand. It gave him time to consider some things. The baby would be born in four months, and Gleason and Jade were now living in a sturdy ranch-style house not far from Trollwood Park, up in Fargo. Gleason was just about to start college. The last time Stregg visited, Gleason had shaken his hand but said nothing. As for Jade, she spent a lot of time alone. Stregg couldn’t get away much because of Carmen. Jade understood. She was radiant. Her hair was long, a lustrous brown. They went into her bedroom in the middle of the day and made love in the stark light. It was very solemn. He went dizzy with the depth of it. When he lay against her, his perceptions shifted and he saw the secret souls of the objects and plants in the room. Everything had consciousness and meaning. Jade was measureless, but she was ordinary, too. Afterward, Stregg drove back down to New Otto and arrived just in time for dinner. When he left the old man, Stregg usually patted his arm or made some other vague gesture of apology. This time, still thinking of his visit with Jade, he bent dreamily over Carmen’s father. He kissed the dry forehead, stroked back the old man’s hair, and thoughtlessly smiled. The old man jerked away suddenly and eyed Stregg like a mad hawk. “You bastard!” he cried. One day, Carmen was sitting in her bathrobe at lunch, tapping a knife against the side of a soft-boiled egg. Suddenly she said, “I know who he was. I saw him in a high-school play right here in New Otto.” Stregg’s guts turned to ice and he phoned Gleason as soon as he could. Sure enough, Gleason had been in every single drama production in high school. Stregg put the phone down and stared at it. Carmen was at the town library at that very moment, looking through old high-school yearbooks. This was how it happened that instead of starting college Gleason bolted and joined the Army. Jade was heartbroken and cried day and night after he was shipped off for basic training. She said that she couldn’t feel anything anymore, and she turned away from Stregg when he visited and wouldn’t let him touch her. After six weeks, Gleason sent a photograph of himself in military gear. He didn’t appear to have bulked up much. His helmet seemed to balance on his thin head, shadowing those wide, soft brown eyes. He looked about twelve years old. Stregg drove home after visiting Jade one afternoon, and put his car keys on the coffee table. “I’m leaving now,” he said. “You keep everything. I have clothes. I have shoes. I’ll make myself a sandwich and be going now.” Jade’s cold sorrow had finally driven him to this. Stregg was sure that he would lose her if he didn’t take action. He walked into the kitchen and made the sandwich and put it into a plastic bag. He walked out into the living room and stood in the center of the carpet. Carmen just looked at him. Then she raised her hand, swept it to the side, and let it fall. The gesture seemed to hang in the air, as if her arm had left a trail. Stregg turned and walked out the door and across town, and headed back to Fargo along the highway. There was only a slight wind, and the temperature was about forty-five degrees. The fields were full of standing water and ducks and geese swam in the ditches. He didn’t take a ride until the sky darkened. Shortly after John Stregg moved into the house in Fargo, his baby boy was born. In those dazzling moments after the birth, Stregg had a vision. The baby resembled Gleason, brave young Gleason, with his big feet and no ass to speak of, who looked as if he could hardly lift a water canteen. Gleason’s heart was a pale and valiant little fish. Was there anyone more magnificent than Gleason? Stregg saw that Gleason was a kind of Christ figure, a martyr like those in the New Testament. Only he had been thrown to the lions in the name of his sister’s happiness. It had occurred to Stregg that, in his new life, Gleason might grow in strength and valor and become exactly the person Carmen believed had abducted her. Now he saw that Gleason already was that person, and that Carmen had recognized it all along. He also saw that Gleason had told his sister about the kidnapping. All of this was clear in the face of the tiny new baby. Stregg looked closer, and tried to see whether Gleason would live or die. But, just then, the baby opened his mouth and bawled. As Jade put the baby to her breast, Stregg sank back into the hospital chair, dizzy with spent adrenaline. For a long time, he just watched mother and son from across the room. Only twice did Stregg visit New Otto. The first time, he brought a U-Haul and loaded into it all that Carmen had not disposed of—she’d thrown a lot of things away. But physical objects had ceased to matter to Stregg. Jade argued with him every day, threatening to go to the police, to turn him in for the kidnapping. “You’ll lose everything.” Stregg waved his arm. “This house. And Gleason will go to jail. Would you like that? You’ll be out on the street. And what about little Gleason?” Jade had named the baby after her brother. There was no getting away from Gleason; he would always control the situation, no matter where he was. Gleason, with his bristle-headed cut, with his combat boots and rifle. In the months after his son’s birth, Stregg had come to understand that he would never be forgiven for engineering the kidnapping scheme that had sent Gleason off to the Army. He had lost Jade’s love. She kicked him out to sleep in the garage, where he curled up beside his car, in a sleeping bag spread out on a little camp cot. Jade spent all day by herself, caring for the baby and cleaning the house. Every so often, she would thrust a shopping list at Stregg, or make him help with heavy lifting. Beyond that, she didn’t want him to get close to her or the baby. He moved around the small house like a ghost, never knowing where to settle. He’d found a job at the insurance agency he’d always used, a low-level position assisting others in processing claims. One day, a homeowner’s claim from his old address landed on his desk. Carmen had filed a claim on everything that he had taken from the house—his own things, which she had agreed and even pressured him to come and clear out. There were power tools, each with a serial number and an identification code, and some stereo and other electronic equipment, even a small computer. Looking at the list, Stregg felt a glimmer of heat rise in his throat. He took his jacket from the office door, went back to the house that his and Carmen’s retirement money had bought, and packed up everything he kept in the garage. He drove to New Otto with a full car, and parked in the driveway of his former home. After a while, Carmen came to the window. She looked at him as he got out of the car, and he looked at her, through the window, which was like the glass of a dim aquarium. When she vanished, he was not sure whether she would come to the door or be absorbed into the gloom. But she did open the door at last, and beckoned him inside. They stood in the entry, quite close. Her hair had gone from gray to silver-white. A pulse beat in her slender throat. Her arms were stick thin, but she seemed to generate an unusual light. Stregg could feel it, this odd radiance. It seemed to emanate from her translucent skin. It occurred to him that he should sink down at the feet of this beautiful, wronged woman and kiss the hem of the pearl velour jogging suit she was wearing. “You filed a claim on all my stuff. I’m bringing it back,” he said. “No. I want the money. I need the money,” she told him. “Why?” “We’re sunk. They’re not going to buy the bank out. They’re opening a new one next to it.” “What about your father’s accounts?” “He’ll live to be a hundred,” Carmen said. “John, he told me that you were seeing another woman all along.” “I don’t know where he got that idea,” Stregg said. Carmen waited. “All right. Yes.” Her eyes filled with terrible tears and she began to shake. Before Stregg knew it, he was holding her. He shut the door. They made love in the entryway, on the carpet where so many people paused, and then on the bench where visitors sat to remove their boots. His remorse, and his shame, compelled him. And her need for him was so powerful it seemed as if they were going over a rushing waterfall together, falling in a barrel, and at the bottom Stregg cracked open and told her everything. He had to, because of Gleason. Stregg clung to Carmen with blackness washing over him, and talked and talked. “I know he violated you,” Stregg said, after he’d spilled everything else. “I understand now.” “Who? That boy? He was just a twerp,” Carmen said. “He never touched me. I said all that stuff out of desperation, to try to make you jealous. Why, I do not know.” She sat up and eyed him with calm assessment. “Possibly, I thought you still loved me, way deep down. I think I believed there was something in you.” “There is, there is,” Stregg said, strangling on a surge of hope, touching her ankles as she got to her feet. “When the snow was covering me, out in the ditch, I saw your face. Real as real. You bent over me and pulled me out. It wasn’t the farmer, it was you.” “It was me,” Stregg said, lifting his arms. “I must have always loved you.” She looked down at him for a long time, contemplating this amazing fact. Then she went upstairs and called the police. In the years afterward, Stregg was sometimes asked by the friends he made behind bars what had caused him to confess what he’d done, and then take all the blame. Sometimes he couldn’t think of a good reason. Other times, he said he had guessed that it would never end; he’d seen that he’d be kicked from one woman to the other until the end of time. But, after he gave his answer, he always came back to that moment when he’d first opened the door to Gleason, and thought of how, when he saw the boy standing in the glowing porch light, in the snow, with that dull gun and that sad face, he hadn’t flinched. 
The Trench When I found the sewage pipe I was happy, but I couldn’t smile. Too many days of danger had hardened my nerves. With the pick, I made a hole in the top part of the drain, and inhaled the stink like the perfume of victory. I hadn’t gone crazy; on the contrary, I’d been saved. We had begun digging many days before. The excavation had started at the house, crossed a garden, and reached the street, blocking half of it. Down below that street, at what depth we didn’t know, we had been told we would find the main sewage pipe. At first, there were a lot of us; then, when the hole went deeper than a man standing, only two of us remained. The trench was three feet wide, the minimum width you needed to turn around in, and at the point where I reached the sewage pipe its floor was twenty feet below the ground. We had to run a conduit from the house to the pipe. The two of us dug in that narrow trench for several days, each day darker than the one before. We put the dirt in containers that were hoisted up from above with a pulley. We entered at dawn; we came out for the midday break, then again at five. Even those who don’t do this kind of work know that a trench like that should be reinforced on both sides, with vertical beams wedged in by perpendicular struts. Otherwise, there’s the risk of collapse. But our boss didn’t want to bother with all that. So the two of us dug, face to face, knowing that we were caught in one hell of a trap. Who were we and why had we accepted this risk? One of us was an Algerian, forty years old, a sober man of few words. He was the last to be hired at the building site, and he knew that he couldn’t refuse the task: he’d be fired. That he needed the work goes without saying; he had just arrived in Paris, he spoke little French, this was his first job in France. The other man was me, a thirty-two-year-old Italian laborer, hired a few months earlier and not much liked by the French boss. I was one of the first to arrive in the morning, but I was one of the first to leave at night, too. No whistle blew; the workers had to watch the clock for themselves, and this meant that they never stopped exactly on time—they were all afraid of appearing insufficiently attached to their jobs. So they ended up putting in unpaid hours for an employer who was expert at tricks of this sort. I left exactly at five—plus, I wouldn’t do overtime on non-work days. This must have hampered the boss’s flexibility. I was not flexible; in fact, I was rigid, hardened in my muscles and in my sleep. So the roughest, dirtiest jobs were deliberately assigned to me. I was the only white-skinned worker who would do them. At midday, between mouthfuls of highly spiced watery soup, we talked for a while in our rudimentary common French, then each returned to his own thoughts in his mother tongue. The other workers called me “Italy,” but I didn’t feel that I belonged to a particular nation. I didn’t support the colors of a jersey or a specific shade of skin, not even my own. I accepted the nickname. “Italy” worked hard and didn’t try to take anyone else’s place, because no one wanted his place. I needed the job. I had found it with difficulty after weeks of pounding pavements on the outskirts of Paris. I had got it, and I wanted to hold on to it, and no damn boss was going to stop me. If he wanted an excuse to get rid of me I wasn’t going to give him one—I would descend to the depths of hell, but I wouldn’t retreat. That was why, for those few days, two men who didn’t know each other and couldn’t even have addressed each other by name stood face to face in a trench, risking their lives in search of a sewage pipe. With every foot we advanced, the sky narrowed; soon it was just a strip the size of the hole we were standing in. With every foot we advanced, we were waiting for that trench to collapse on us, burying us alive. The other workers no longer greeted us in the morning; they went off silently to their jobs. At midday, someone would usually offer us something to drink. I always refused; a mute anger had grown in me, a fury under the skin that allowed me to endure the hours down in the hole. How long did this last? Not that long—a dozen days. At the end of the first week the man who was with me started to crack. In the darkness, illuminated by our lamp—it was dark down there even at midday—his round black eyes stared, his face dripped sweat; he muttered his automatic invocation, which I can still hear if I block my ears. “Trouvé? Tu l’as trouvé?”: the hoarse voice of a lost man, the common exhalation of the trenches of that century. “No, I haven’t found it yet, but it must be close. Ask for someone else to take over from you, friend. The boss isn’t mad at you—you’ve done your part.” I told him this, and then he was silent; he said no more. He had asked the other Algerian workers already, but no one was willing to go down there. So I assured him that if the trench was going to collapse it would do so only at night, when the damp came. I invented rational explanations, and he sort of believed me; I was educated. The truth was, the trench wouldn’t collapse; he hadn’t crossed the sea only to end up buried with a man from Naples—we would die on the ocean, in the mountains, but not here. This I didn’t say to him: one shouldn’t speak of death with one’s feet in a grave. I was trying to calm his fear, but I did it for myself as well, because I needed him—with two of us, the job would be done sooner. If he broke down, if he got himself fired, I would have to finish digging by myself, it would take me longer, and the risk would be greater. But why should a man have to suffer this way? Why in the world should a human being have to earn bread for his children with a noose around his neck? For me it was a question of pride, but for him it was only bread, and still he had to soak it in that salty water of ours, which tasted so much like tears. Then I decided that he was no help to me—I would manage better on my own. So during the lunch break one day I went to the boss, who looked at me combatively, ready to tell me that this was the job, and, if I didn’t want to do it, here was the door. I had already heard him say as much to others. In front of the other workers, I told him that you couldn’t turn around in the trench anymore, that it was impossible for two men to continue to work down there, and that by now we had to be close to the sewer. I asked him to let me finish the job alone. He looked down at his plate and nodded his head. So after the lunch break I went alone into the trench. For the first time in days I felt calm; without the other man there I was relieved. Now I wasn’t just using the pick, I had to shovel, too. It might take longer but at least I wouldn’t have those eyes on me, I wouldn’t have to hear that whisper (“Trouvé? Tu l’as trouvé?”), or see all that human matter dripping with sweat and shame and, against its will, begging a stranger for salvation. This I understand now, as I recall those days for the first time. Back then it occurred to me only that I didn’t need him, that I didn’t need anyone to help me find that damn sewer. Without his pain, I felt lighter. But I still couldn’t find the drain. Days passed this way; the sky on August mornings in France was brilliant. From the bottom of the trench it looked like a canal. I didn’t sweat much; it was cool down there. Every so often someone would lean over the edge of the hole and ask, “Everything O.K.?” I invariably answered, “It’s a vacation.” If a truck passed on the street, dirt fell from the walls of the trench. It was as if the trench were perspiring, stretching its muscles so as not to collapse: it sweated earth. It’s on my side, I thought. At times, even a difficult job isn’t enough to keep your brain quiet, and a person alone in a ditch for eight hours a day has a lot of time to make up tall tales and stories for himself. It seemed to me—I admit it—as if the hole had a body and a will; for example, it had the affectionate desire not to end up on top of me. On one of those days somebody, as a joke, tossed into the hole a primitive cross, two pieces of wood tied together at right angles with a rope. It landed near my pick. I felt an impulse to rush to the surface and pursue whoever wanted to play undertaker with me. A dead man rising, with the cross in his hands, to chase his own funeral procession: then I smiled. When finally I sank the pick into the earth and the iron rebounded from the top of the sewage pipe with a thunderclap, I was happy. But by that time I couldn’t smile: nerves had bound the muscles of my face as tight as string around a roast in the oven. I wanted to shout, but no sound came out. With the shovel I cleared the area and with a blow of the pick I pierced the vault on which, at last, my feet were standing. Has anyone ever been happy to smell shit? I was, and I swelled with fierce pride, thus mixing with that natural odor the unnatural stench of all the garbage I had carried inside me for those two weeks. Shit on shit: it must have been a tie between me and that sewer, in the contest to see which of us held more. I don’t want to speak ill of myself. When one is in a tight spot in life, one uses whatever one can to get out, without questioning where it comes from. My proud thoughts had served to keep me down in that trench without asking for relief. They had rendered me a service, but at the same time they were shit thoughts. I was happy to have won the fight with that brute of a boss who wouldn’t have paid a penny for the death of a workman buried in a collapsed ditch. I came out early that day, and everyone asked me anxiously if I had found the pipe, afraid that I had finally decided to give up. I answered by bringing two fingers to my nose as if to hold it closed. Is the vacation over? they asked. They were happy that I had succeeded. They all knew that they had tolerated the possibility that one of their own would die without their doing anything to prevent it. But the only way they could have done something for me was either by risking their own precarious jobs or by taking my place: one cannot ask a man to leave the rank and file and raise his voice or his cross. Still, a man who appreciates in another a gesture that he has had to repress can later become his friend. That day, all the workers left together exactly at five. At five o’clock, there was no one left at the site. I smile in sympathy now; then I hardly noticed. It took a week to make the hookup. The specialized workers demanded that the entire trench be reinforced according to regulations. The boss was beside himself because of the time it would cost him. He pointed at me to show that there was no danger, and even dared, he was so furious, to ask me in their presence if any earth had fallen from the walls while I was down there, hoping for my complicity. “Like hail” was my response. Perhaps in all our lives there comes a day when we are happy to smell shit. I know that I’ve behaved badly in my life, that I’ve risked my life out of pride and anger, and whatever else may lie in a man’s heart. Although my presence has since been requested at the table of many languages, and numerous people have invited me to sit beside them, I wish for no one else to have to do as I did, hacking at my own grave with a pick, in the hope that it was not yet ready for me.
The Bone Game They’d only taken a simple wrong turn somewhere—taken a wrong exit off the freeway, then got caught downtown in the maze of Seattle’s one-way streets—but to D’Angelo it was as if they’d travelled back in time to the nineteenth century. He looked out the Cadillac’s tinted window and saw, through a haze of watery green, a few Chinese men in loose slacks, old coolie stock, it seemed to him, struggling up the steep hill, stooped over as if shouldering the weight of a maul. “Look at those Chinks,” he said. “I bet they laid some track in their day.” Kype finally found the street he wanted and steered the car north through Pioneer Square. An Indian sat on the curb with his head in his hands, tying back two slick wings of crow-black hair with a faded blue bandanna. A pair of broken-heeled cowboy boots lay in the gutter while he aired his bare feet. D’Angelo rolled down his window, waved a gun in the air, took a bead, and dry-fired. The hammer struck three times against empty chambers, but in his mind D’Angelo had dropped the Indian, right there on the sidewalk. He raised the barrel to his lips and blew away an imaginary wisp of smoke. “What if that had been loaded?” Kype said. D’Angelo grinned, and fired the gun at Kype’s face. “It isn’t, is it?” “Jesus,” Kype said, grabbing the gun. He tossed it in the back seat. “Cut the cowboy crap.” D’Angelo just smiled and watched a couple of Filipina hookers shuffle under the awning of an expedition outfitter and guide service. Behind them, in the display window, a stuffed grizzly bear reared up on its hind legs. Kype palmed the steering wheel into another sharp turn, the Caddy’s tires squealing rubber on the warm asphalt. A container of ashes rocked in the seat next to him. D’Angelo picked up the decorative urn and unscrewed the lid. Caught in a gust of wind, a cloud of gray ash eddied through the car. Kype coughed and fanned the air as some of the powdery remains of his grandfather drifted under his nose and blew into the street. He ran his tongue over his lips, tasting ash. “Damn man,” Kype said, spitting. “Ashes to ashes.” D’Angelo screwed down the lid and gave the urn a shake. Something inside rattled. “Bones,” he said. “Teeth.” Kype snatched the urn from D’Angelo and set it in the back seat with the gun. He wiped the sweat from his forehead. It was hot, and he hadn’t bathed in more than a week. “How old was he?” D’Angelo asked. “Ninety-nine,” Kype said. “I hope I don’t live that long.” “Grandpa lived a good life.” “Some of those old boys just spend the golden years fouling their drawers.” “Grandpa maintained his dignity,” Kype said. “I can’t get into old people,” D’Angelo said. He took a quick pull of bourbon and eased back in his seat. D’Angelo was wearing a red Western shirt with pearlish plastic snaps and a turquoise bolo tie, an outfit he’d bought in a tack shop in Tonasket, near the Canadian border. He’d hoped the shirt and tie would give him a Western look, but he was chubby and short and he still wore the baggy pin-striped slacks and red high-top sneakers he’d left Brooklyn in, six months earlier. To Kype he looked like one of those midget clowns that rode Shetland ponies at rodeo intermissions. The two men had met a couple of days before, when Kype picked up D’Angelo, who’d been thumbing for a ride at a truck stop east of the mountains. “He almost lived a century,” Kype said, thinking of his grandfather. “Washington wasn’t even a state when he was born.” “You live that long,” D’Angelo said, “there just aren’t many people left to bury you. That’s why you’re out here, driving around like the Buddha, looking for the spot.” Kype let the conversation die and navigated the old car along the waterfront. The Eldorado had belonged to his grandfather, a tall, lean, white-haired patriarch who had remained vigorous—still splitting and stacking his own cordwood, still waking at dawn to fish for kings and silvers off Camano Head—until one evening two weeks earlier when he’d said, “I’m awfully goddam tired,” and then sat down on the davenport, shut his eyes, and died. Later that night, sharply missing the old man, Kype had looked through his grandfather’s address book and seen something that resembled the score sheet of a high 200 bowler—all spares and strikes, thick black diagonal slashes and X’s drawn through name after name, as one by one his friends had passed away. The Eldorado was the last car let on the ferry. Kype and D’Angelo got out and stood up front, gripping the gate chains, the stiff wind whipping their faces. “Maybe it’s this way,” Kype said. He gestured expansively, sweeping his hand west, the sky a wash of leached red as the sun began to set. D’Angelo drew a dented Marine Band harmonica from his shirt pocket and tried desperately to turn “Home on the Range” into an upbeat blues number. It was the only song he knew, and it sounded awful. He played it incessantly, but Kype, in the two days he’d known D’Angelo, hadn’t heard much improvement. When the ferry’s horn blasted, Kype tossed a penny into the sound, something he’d done for luck on every crossing since he was a kid. D’Angelo said, “He couldn’t have been much of a dad to you.” “You don’t know,” Kype said. “You guys never played catch, I know that.” “Yes we did,” Kype said. “You got a fem throw,” D’Angelo said. “You got sissy muscles. Nobody ever showed you, I can tell.” Kype futzed with the zipper of his thin yellow windbreaker, and said, “Throwing isn’t everything.” “We’ll find the spot.” The “spot” was the right place to cast loose the old man’s ashes. Kype didn’t know where it was exactly, not on any map at least, but he knew he’d recapture a certain feeling when he got there. He’d been travelling back and forth across the state for a week, retracing his grandfather’s steps, visiting his birthplace, his old haunts, looking for that feeling. Now he was headed for the ocean. The memorial service—a garish cross between the stilted air of a museum fund-raiser and the drunken sloppiness of a send-off—had seemed ludicrous to Kype, with everyone from old family friends to business cronies to reporters there to speculate about the life and times of Henry Kype Green. His grandfather’s wealth came from sources deep in the history and raw materials of the region—trees and fish, mostly—and the old man had been something of a legend, a legend the local newspapers had been rehashing with abandon. The last of the pioneers, the papers had called him. True enough, during the Volstead days he’d run booze down Haro Strait, he’d been big in timber, in the fisheries, he’d served a stint or two in the state legislature. Of his generation, he was certainly the last. Kype had sat beside his drunken mother in the front pew as the Reverend mounted the pulpit and announced that for a man as great as Henry Kype Green death was a simple passage, a great reward for service rendered: old Kype, having done so much to improve the earthly garden, had long ago earned a providential seat in Paradise. It seemed to Kype a measure of his grandfather’s eminence in the community that the key passages for the sermon and eulogy were taken from the Book of Revelation—the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the ending, the four and twenty of this, the seven of that, the angels, the trumpets!—but then, too, the service had been noisy with senile rumblings, old men and women muttering to themselves, calling out like dreamers, and the whole affair had been a little dotty and obscure and ultimately incomprehensible. Following the service there was a lavish spread: crustless Walla Walla sweet-onion sandwiches, poached sockeye salmon, Dungeness crab, Willapa Bay oysters shucked and bedded in a glacier of shaved ice, mountains of Red Delicious apples, all gifts from friends, delivered—half in homage, half in throwback to Roman taxation—from the various corners of the state. Kype gave several interviews, but he had the uneasy feeling that his words were being reshaped and slotted into a story that had already been written. “My grandfather started out,” he told a reporter from the Seattle Times, “as a whistle punk in a donkey show.” The woman asking him questions brightened at the prospect of an unseemly revelation about old Kype’s obscure origins but grew disappointed, then bored, when she learned that whistle punks and donkey shows had nothing to do with sex. Others were interested in Kype himself, the grandson rumored to be the primary beneficiary named in the will. Kype had never known his father, who’d drowned in a boating accident—waterskiing drunk, he’d neglected to let go of the rope and had smashed into a dock—shortly before Kype was born. Kype had been raised in his grandfather’s house in the Highlands. With the reading of the will, he’d be filthy rich. This made people want to gawk at him, to see the mechanics of money, or wealth, grinding away inside. Kype had slipped out of the hall and walked next door to the church, where his grandfather’s urn rested on a bench beside the altar. He tucked it under his arm like a football and quickly made his way out of the church, down the steps, to the corner where the old man’s car was parked. His mother had planned to set the urn on a marble shelf in the family mausoleum, but Kype had other ideas, or thought he did, as he turned the key and started up the ancient Eldorado. Kype and D’Angelo drove through the night. The big car’s headlights bored a tunnel through the dense overhang of cedar and blue spruce, a tunnel that opened briefly before them in a shaft of white light and closed immediately behind them in a darkness tinged red by the tail-lights. It was the dry season near the end of August, and there hadn’t been any rain in weeks. In a few of the gypo outfits—makeshift mills set back from the road—they could see wheels of blue sparks spin from the saws and smell fresh cut wood as the blades bit pulp. Every now and then they passed a crop of white crosses that marked the location of a deadly wreck. The Eldorado sailed along, its generous suspension floating so loosely over the bends and curves that Kype managed to give himself a touch of seasickness. At a fork in the road, a young woman appeared, holding her thumb out. She was wearing tight white shorts, ankle-strap sandals, and a man’s shirt with the tails knotted together high on her waist. She was leaning against a huge rock, an erratic scrawled with Day-Glo declarations of love. “Slow down, slow down,” D’Angelo said. Kype eased the car onto the shoulder. The woman picked up a woven basket and hopped into the back seat. She didn’t even ask where they were going. She seemed to know. “Well,” D’Angelo said, “I guess you’re game for going wherever the hell we go, huh? Want a drink?” “Sure,” she said. She slugged from the bottle, then wiped her lips. A rhinestone clip in the shape of a horse sparkled in her hair. “If you’re on this road, there’s only one place to go. You got no choice. Nothing but reservation up ahead.” She took another drink before passing the bottle back to D’Angelo. “And the ocean,” she said. “There’s a big ocean at the end of this road.” “You from around here?” Kype asked. He tried to catch a glimpse of her in the rearview mirror, but she had sprawled in the big back seat, out of sight. “Yep,” she said. “Name’s Nell, Nella Ides.” “Well, Nella Ides,” D’Angelo said, “this guy’s grandpa died. He was very fucking old, a real big shot. You may have heard of him. Kype, his name was Kype. Just like this guy. Anyway, me and my friend Kype here, we’re drinking the old man’s bourbon, and we got his old gun, and we’re going to catch the biggest, wildest fish in the ocean with his old fishing pole.” “Putting the fun back in funeral,” Nell said. “That’s right,” D’Angelo said. “And since you’re from around here, and you know the lie of the land, you’re invited.” “Suits me fine,” Nell said. “I got a cousin might be interested, too. For your friend there.” “My grandfather knew Mungo Martin,” Kype said, looking in the rearview mirror. “Who’s Mungo Martin?” Nell asked. “Mungo Martin? Mungo Martin was a tyee, a chief—Satsop or Haida, Bella Coola, maybe Makah.” “He wasn’t no Makah,” Nell said. “Some chief, anyway. I don’t really know. Supposedly a great artist or something. He carved totem poles, if that’s art. Grandfather met him negotiating a timber contract after the war.” “See what I was saying,” D’Angelo said. “This guy’s granddad, old Kype, he was a high-ass muckamuck. A very big deal who knew Mungo, another very big deal. It was a high old time in town when old Kype and old Mungo got together.” “I’d know if he was a Makah. That I’d know.” “How old are you, Nella Ides?” “Old,” she said. Nell’s skin was dark and smelled richly of sweat, smoke, and coconut oil. She had spent most of the day drinking beer in Port Angeles. A man she’d met in P. A. had dropped her off on his way out to Forks. Before that she’d blacked out, and before that she had gone to a pink motel with the man, where a suspicious night clerk had forced her to sign the registry. She’d used her Makah name, the long English translation that took up three spaces in the guest book: What-you-get-you-can’t-store-up-because-it-is-so-much. D’Angelo climbed into the back seat and sat beside her. “Your eyes are green,” he said, kissing her. “Get us that bottle back here,” Nell said. Kype handed the bottle over, feeling jilted, suddenly the chauffeur for his hitching passengers. A convoy of logging trucks boomed by, their wake a vacuum that made the big Cadillac shudder. Kype couldn’t see Nell or D’Angelo, but he listened to the sounds they made, to their voices. “Don’t look back,” he heard D’Angelo say. In Neah Bay the road ran out, dissolving into a patch of packed dirt and windblown sand, the Makah Nation. A few white shacks lined either side of the street. One of the houses looked like the site of a massive collision. Smashed vehicles surrounded it. Doors, bumpers, bucket seats, and radiators were piled in the yard. A few intact cars that had probably seen the open road for the last time when Eisenhower was President seemed to be under repair. A beat DeSoto with a broken windshield and sun-hardened tires, its rims sunk in the sand, was parked beneath a shade tree. Above it, a half-stripped engine dangled from a winch, rocking back and forth as the branches swayed in the breeze. An open toolbox and a coffee cup sat on the fender. “That must be the chief’s house,” D’Angelo said. When Nell sat up, one of her small breasts showed, the nipple dark brown like a knot in wood. It glistened with saliva. She tied the tails of her shirt together. “Salmon season closes today, fellas,” she said. “How about that?” Kype said. “The ocean must be the spot. My grandfather’s spirit guides us.” “Here’s to Grandpa,” Nell said, taking a long drink from the bottle. “Here is Grandpa,” D’Angelo said, holding up the urn. He unscrewed the cap, poked his fingers in, and marked a cross on Nell’s forehead. “Ashes to ashes,” he said. “And dust to dust.” “Please don’t fuck around with that,” Kype said. Grains of blowing sand needled the sides of the car. Dense forest seemed to slide down from the hills, crowding the village against the sea. At the far end of the dirt plaza, the sign for a bait shop sputtered, its red neon bleeding into the fog. “I’m going to check on my baby,” Nell said. She pulled back her hair and adjusted the clip. “I’ll be right back.” “Don’t forget your cousin,” D’Angelo said. He slapped Kype on the back. “For my friend here.” The first pale cast of light shone inland, a faint silver rim, like a lid ajar, in the world they’d left behind. Slowly the street wakened to life. A few lamps went on, glowing a cold yellow in the salt-whitened windows of the shacks. A young girl walked toward the water, watching the sun rise, and a hesitant old man left a trail of footprints in the dust as he crossed the road. A boy with a net began scooping bait from a blue plastic pool. Kype stood beside him. The boy flicked his wrist and twisted the net through hundreds of small dark fish, then emptied his catch into a clear plastic bag and tied it shut. In Kype’s hand, the bag squirmed with life, beating like a heart, and then slowly stilled to a few last fitful flickers as the herring suffocated. “Got our bait?” D’Angelo said. Kype showed him the dead herring. When he saw Nell, D’Angelo asked, “Where’s your cousin?” “She’s sick of fish,” Nell said. Inside the bait shop, a steel coffee pot percolated, bubbling with the first brew of the day. A plume of steam rose from beneath its rattling lid. A few charter operators sat on a bench, waiting for customers. “We need a boat,” Kype said. A man named Porter rose stiffly on arthritic knees. He studied Kype’s smooth white skin, his blue eyes, the easy loose movement of his arms and legs as he approached the counter. Kype was wearing his grandfather’s clothes: the thin yellow windbreaker, a pink oxford shirt, khakis with an elastic waistband, a pair of leather boat shoes. “And I want it exclusive,” Kype said. “There’s three of us.” “Can’t give it to you exclusive,” Porter said. Kype unfolded his wallet. “I’ll buy up the other spots.” Porter looked at the neat square edge of new bills crowding the wallet. “You’ll pay for twelve?” he asked, although his boat would accommodate only six. “No problem,” Kype said. He spread a fan of bills across the counter, paying for the phantom spots, paying for their tackle and bait, their lunches and their fishing licenses, too. “Slip five,” Porter said. “She’s called Kingdom Come.” He led them out to the marina. Cabin lights had come on in some of the pleasure craft. A few men huddled on the docks, sipping coffee. Kype loosened the bowline from a wooden cleat. D’Angelo and Nell kissed under the blue light of an arc lamp. “That girl your friend’s with,” Porter said, “she’s not right in the head. She’s the rez punch, you know what I mean? You can charter her easy as you can charter me. She’s got a kid, and herself only a kid. They live with the great-grandmother. I hate to see it.” Porter ran the bilge and checked the radio. “This old can seaworthy, Captain?” D’Angelo said. “Was yesterday,” Porter said. He looked at Nell. “You go on home.” She got in the boat. Porter ran the throttle full-open, watching from the wheelhouse as Kype and D’Angelo and Nell stood in the bow. When they were three miles out, he idled back and headed south along the coast. He shouted over the droning engine, “It’s now or never.” Kype assembled his salmon rod, sliding the ferrules together, and then Porter baited his hook. The herring had been kept on ice and were cold and firm. Porter double-hooked the bait, running one snelled hook through the head and the other through the tail, snugging them together so the herring curled and would then spin and twist beneath the water, turning with a wounded motion. When he was finished, Porter decided to set up a rod for himself in the downrigger. Nell was lying on the hatch, the long skirt she’d changed into bunched up around her thighs, her brown face turning soft and shapeless as putty in the warm sun. D’Angelo sat in the bow, nervously tightening the straps on a bright-orange life preserver. Kype held his grandfather’s rod as if it were a golden staff and he a sentry assigned guardianship of the sea. “Reading the will’s going to be something,” Kype said. “You know what my program is, from now on? Exhaustion. That’s it, exhaustion. That’s my ambition. I’m just going to go everywhere and do everything and then get totally sick and tired of it all.” “That a boy, Kypester,” D’Angelo said. “You’ll be like Ecclesiastes, Jr., all fucking worn out and shit.” D’Angelo slid closer to Nell. “Hey, Nell, Miss Ides, you want to hear about his inheritance?” “You’re blocking my sun,” she said. Kype had never fished much—his grandfather liked to go alone—and each tug of the bait and spin of the spoon lure felt like a strike to him. Twice he reeled in, and twice found nothing. He stripped out line in two-foot lengths, measuring as Porter had showed him, until he reached seventy feet. He traced the white thread of monofilament from his rod tip into the sea and then followed it below the surface until the line disappeared in the green water, beyond the reach of light. He felt a strange resignation, not knowing a thing about salmon. Given over to the rise and fall of the boat, he was lulled into a forgetfulness, the heave of the ocean working its way into his bones, softening them. He eased the cork butt of the rod against his navel and shut his eyes and felt the ocean in his stomach, calmly rolling on. He imagined the bait beneath the surface, moving back and forth in slow undulations, like a kite in the sky. The strike called Kype back to himself. In panic he jerked the rod and started reeling in, watching the line cut wildly across the surface. The pole curled over like a scythe. He reeled as fast as he could, instinctively afraid that the life on the other end of the line would escape him. And it was life, life struggling so mightily that the rod seemed to Kype like a sensitive instrument measuring the fight not only of the salmon but of the entire ocean. He was so beside himself with excitement he made a promise—to God, it seemed—that if he were lucky enough to land this fish he would commemorate the event by spreading his grandfather’s ashes over the water. Life! Kype kept thinking, life! And then, for a moment, the priority of things reversed, and he felt that whatever was fighting on the other end of the line had suddenly engaged in a tug-of-war and was trying to haul him overboard into the sea. Then the rod snapped straight, and the life in the line was gone. Kype reeled in quickly, hoping that perhaps the salmon had simply given up the ghost. But it wasn’t so: whatever it was had spat the hook. The herring was stripped to the bone, just a head with eyes trailed by a white comb of cartilage and vertebrae. He set his rod aside. Porter had also got a strike. He played it leisurely, allowing the fish to exhaust itself in several long streaking runs, and then brought it up against the boat and scooped it with the landing net. He lifted the net high, the salmon thrashing the air, throwing off a spray of water with each spasm. Porter grabbed a gaff hook and raised the butt end over his shoulder and then hesitated—he looked at Kype and said, “You want it?” “Yeah, sure,” Kype said. “I lost mine.” Porter clubbed the silver in the back of the head. He did it once, hard, mercifully. Blood trickled from its eyes, its caudal fin twitched and a shiver uncoiled along the length of its body, and it was done. Nell’s house was entirely embosked in blackberry. A thorny tangled patch of brambles, a grotesque confusion of growth, twenty feet high, rolled like a rogue wave over the roof. A hole in the vines gave way to a set of gray weathered planks, each board slanted and wobbling, which led to a gated entry. Beyond the gate was a small teak door, cockeyed in its frame, with layers of dry varnish peeling away. Its upper hinge was broken and had been replaced with a strap of leather. Dusty beams of sunlight filtered down through the dome of stickers, and a few bees, humming in the last warmth of the day, moved lazily among the delicate white flowers. Berries hung everywhere, black and ripe, redolent and sweet, weighing the branches down. The house listed to one side, and Kype realized why when he looked up a narrow set of steps and saw the flying bridge. The house was not a house; it was a boat. An old woman sat in the dark cool galley with a blanket on her lap. Nell touched the woman’s shoulder and continued on toward the bow of the boat, into the forecastle. D’Angelo followed, and soon Kype heard them giggling and wrestling on the bunk. Kype stared at the old woman, whose face flowed smoothly, like rock eroded by waves. Her eyes were a silverish silt-green and sat in their sockets like marquetry. Kype stood with his fish in one hand and the urn of ashes in the other and didn’t know what to say. Light and shadow entwined her face, and around her forehead she wore an odd red crown woven from cedar. She didn’t move or acknowledge him in any manner. The ancient smell of fish rose from a hold that hadn’t seen a salmon in decades. Kype listened to the stupefying murmur of the bees, a drowsy buzz that now resided as an itch in his ear. He stuck his finger in, as deep as it would go, digging and scratching at the irritation, then pulled at the lobe. We didn’t know what on earth it was when the ship came into the harbor. So the chief, he sent out some warriors in a couple of canoes to see what it was. They were taking a good look at those white people on the deck there. Kype raised his salmon by the gill and stared into its face as if it had spoken. One white man had a real hooked nose, you know. And one of the men was saying to this other guy, “See, see. He must have been a dog salmon, that guy there. He’s got a hooked nose.” The other guy was looking at him, and a man came out of the galley and he was a hunchback. And the other one said, “Yes! We’re right, we’re right. Look at that one. He’s a humpback. He’s a humpback salmon.” Kype shook the urn at his ear but heard only the dicelike rattle of bones and teeth. So they went ashore and they told the big chief, “You know what we saw? They’ve got white skin. But we’re pretty sure that those people on the floating thing there, they must have been fish. But they’ve come here as people.” Kype looked at the old woman, whose silver eyes had closed, the leather of her lids lowered like shades. He was still hearing the story, a steady, somewhat distant drone of words, like the sound of an alarm in another room heard from inside a dream. He swallowed hard to clear the pressure in his ears and reached for a lamp stand, trying to steady himself, but swiped empty air as the house yawed and his rubbery legs buckled. He turned and bolted aft, up the steps to deck level, down the crooked gangway, through the cavernous tunnel and out. He ran into the middle of the road and waited in the white dusty light until Nell and D’Angelo emerged from the boat, blinking like tired children. Nell led them to a corrugated-tin shed, where they found, in a walk-in refrigerator, cases of milk in pint cartons, stacked to the ceiling. D’Angelo hoisted one of the cases onto his shoulder and they marched off along a path spongy with duff and down a steep crooked trail until they came to a tiny inlet. A small stream, not ten feet wide, spilled into an estuarial flat choked with eelgrass and then into the ocean. They forded the stream and came to a campsite. A bleached stick, pitted like old bone, had been jabbed in the sand. Bird feathers, clamshells, and the pinnate fronds of a sword fern, dried brown, were strung together, dangling from the stick and fluttering in the wind. Nell sat down and hitched her skirt up over her knees, gathering the loose folds in her hands. “You can light a fire there,” she said. Kype and D’Angelo stared at each other. “Are you men or what?” Nell asked. “Gather wood up and light a fire or we’re gonna freeze our asses when the sun goes down.” They stripped moss and bark from the trees and hauled several loads of driftwood and then stopped by the stream for a drink. It was a beautiful little stream, the water pure and clear as crystal, shining with light, but the banks were stacked with dead fish. They were drying in the sand and swarming with flies, their skin baked a golden bronze by the sun, or they were caught up in the weeds along shore, rotting in the shallow water. Their eye sockets were empty and their long ragged teeth were bared as if to scare away scavengers. “I guess I’m not thirsty,” D’Angelo said. “What the fuck’s wrong with these fish?” The living didn’t look any better than the dead. They were thin and mutilated, their flesh ripped and trailing from their bodies like rags. Some of these haunted fish were hardly motile, finning weakly in the shallow stream, while others, ravaged by parasites, were alive but so near death they were already decomposing. “You gonna cook that salmon?” Nell asked, when the fire caught and began to bank up. “Sure he is,” D’Angelo said. Kype asked, “Who was that old woman?” “That’s my great-grandma,” Nell said. “I bet she’s older ’n your grandpa and she ain’t in no jewelry box, either.” “She wasn’t what you’d call friendly.” Kype hadn’t brought a knife but he patted his pockets anyway. “She probably didn’t even know you were there. She’s blind.” “Bullshit,” Kype said. “Bullshit you,” Nell said. “She looked right at me. She knew I was there all right. She talked to me. She told me a story.” “You maybe heard something, but you didn’t hear her. She doesn’t talk. She stopped a while back.” “I’m telling you, she spoke to me.” “Cut up that fish,” Nell said. “I didn’t bring a knife.” D’Angelo hopped to, arranging a row of the square pint cartons along the top of a gray drift log. Empty shotgun shells and spent casings marked the location of an earlier milk massacre. Old cartons sat in the sand, giving off a soured reek. “Gummerment milk,” Nell explained. “We don’t know what to do with it all. We drink a little and shoot the rest.” D’Angelo said, “I can’t wait.” “My grandfather got that gun out of the Everett morgue,” Kype said. “From a friend who worked there. He had a bucket of guns just lying around.” D’Angelo said, “That musta been way back yonder in nineteen ought something or other, wasn’t it?” “I don’t know,” Kype said glumly. He removed his boat shoes and burrowed his pale-pink feet in the sand. He stepped into the stream and started walking through the throng of dead and dying salmon toward the beach. A glassy wet margin of sand, where the waves of a rising tide turned back, left a wrack of sea lettuce and sand dollars and long whiplike ropes of kelp. Kype stood in the churning white froth, waves collapsing around him; a blueness had crept into the light. Cormorants gathered on the rocks and dried their wings, their heads turned aside and their black wings outspread like robed priests offering a benediction. When Kype returned, Nell was gutting their salmon with the shell of a razor clam she’d whetted against a rock. Kype stood behind her and saw how the firelight brought the red in her hair to the surface. She’d been singing to herself and then she stopped and turned and said, “Hey, asshole.” He moved out of her light and her song resumed. Nell skewered the salmon with sticks, interlacing several deft sutures through the meat, and then she cantilevered the whole fish over the fire with a tree branch staked in the sand. The unadorned fillets began sizzling, the skin dripping gobbets of crackling fat on the coals. “Kype.” D’Angelo’s voice echoed off the wet rock walls of the tiny cove and, reverberating, seemed to call Kype’s name from out at sea. “I’d say this is your spot.” “I’m not feeling it.” “You’re running out of choices, Buddha-boy.” “I think I’ll head back,” Kype said. “It’s been a long day.” “You can’t leave me out here.” “You can’t leave, period,” Nell said. “Three’s a crowd. You guys enjoy the salmon.” “The trail’s underwater,” Nell said. “You have to wait for the tide to change.” “Underwater?” “Not forever. It goes back out, don’tcha know? All you have to do is wait.” Kype pulled at the salmon with his fingers. The pink flesh was fatty and moist, with a smoky wood flavor. He folded the crisp skin in half and ate that, too. Finished, he picked his teeth with a white bone and said, “The old woman told me we were fish.” Nell said, “You were hearing things.” “I know what I heard,” Kype said. “She don’t talk.” “She talked to me.” “Well, I’m just a dumb Injun,” Nell said. “Maybe it’s me that’s gone deaf.” “How long until the tide changes?” Kype asked. “Quit whining,” Nell said. “But, uh, you only bring that one bottle?” “Let’s do some shooting,” D’Angelo said. They left Nell by the fire, walking off thirty paces, arguing ballistics as they searched for an angle where they weren’t likely to get themselves killed by ricocheting bullets. Kype loaded the gun. “Let’s wager,” he said. “Oh, a wager, how delightful,” D’Angelo said, in a mocking highfalutin accent. “Well, O.K., old chap, old sport, let’s see—my harmonica against your Cadillac.” “That’s not fair.” “Fuck fair, Kype. You’re about to inherit a fortune. You’re done with fair. Fair is for losers.” He ran a hand through his greasy hair and said, “I’ll throw in my bolo.” “I want Nell.” “Oh,” D’Angelo said. “O.K.” Kype shot first and missed. He’d never used a gun before, and he had expected something monumental, a big bang and some kick, but the pistol was tiny, nearly a toy, and it made only a faint, insignificant pop against the waves resounding in the cove. “My turn,” D’Angelo said. “I only get one shot?” “If you miss it’s not your turn anymore.” D’Angelo frowned, shaking his head. “Everybody knows that.” He steadied the pistol at his side and then yanked it from an imaginary holster, popping off a shot that managed to plug the carton cleanly. “Oh, yeah,” he said, stopping to watch the stream of milk bleed into the sand. “That’s the way you do it.” The next shot exploded in a spray of white. The tattered box fell into the river, spilling milk, and drifted away. “Never thought I’d be shooting milk when I left Brooklyn,” D’Angelo said. “Why’d you leave?” Kype asked. “I always had that dream, to hitchhike out West.” “I never did.” “Where the hell would you go?” D’Angelo said, sweeping the barrel of the gun across the horizon. “Swimming, I guess.” “Let me see the gun.” “I haven’t missed yet, Kype. It’s still my turn. Why don’t you get us some of that hooch? This shooting is giving me a thirst.” Kype went for the bottle but Nell refused to give it up and he returned empty-handed. “But this isn’t the West anymore,” D’Angelo said. “It’s like west of the West, or something.” “Let me take a shot.” “Kype, if I have to tell you one more time, I’m going to shoot you.” Kype wondered if the new life awaiting him after probate would be like this, lived among strangers. He would inherit a fortune but never feel entirely at home. “I thought there’d be something else,” D’Angelo said. “It’s disappointing. It’s making me lonesome. Nothing but stinking fish and the ocean. It’s no wonder you can’t find your spot, Kype. From out here, you have to go east to get to the West.” “What are you talking about?” “We need to reload.” D’Angelo handed him the pistol. “But it’s still my turn.” “Why do you get the girl?” “She smells like fish,” D’Angelo said. “Just like everything else around here.” Kype fed a shell into each chamber and closed the cylinder and gave it a spin. Then he made a break for it. D’Angelo lunged for him, but Kype juked across the beach, and when he reached the log he shoved the barrel of the gun against the belly of the first carton and shot it. He shot the one next to it; and he shot the one next to that. He tossed one of the milks in the air and tried to shoot it on the wing, missing wildly as the carton zoomed out of the sky, but after it caromed off his head and came to rest in the sand, plopping at his feet, he shot it twice for good measure. He mowed them down, picking off carton after carton, and when he ran out of bullets he grabbed the hot barrel and beat the last few milks with the butt of the gun, hammering away until the seams burst and the waxed cardboard turned to pulp. He caught his breath, looking over the carnage. The milks were slaughtered, and his shirt was soaked. Downstream the dark humped backs of the migrating salmon stirred indifferently in water that had turned cloudy white. “Happy, Buddha-man?” D’Angelo brushed sand off his pleated pants and shook out the cuffs. “Now give me the gun.” “We’re out of milk, my friend,” Kype said. “I shot the last milk. They’re all dead.” “Some sport you are.” “There’s nothing left,” Kype said, handing over the gun and the crumpled box of ammo. “There’s you,” D’Angelo said. He cinched up his bolo tie, flexed the fingers of his right hand, and squinted at Kype. “And there’s these fucking fish.” His first shot pierced the eye of an old buck with a bony face and a long, grim snout that curled like a brass coat hook. It had been holding in some quiet water behind a rock, and, when the bullet entered its brain, it merely let go and was borne gently downstream. D’Angelo knelt near the bank and bumped off two more of the weary, spent fish. They flopped in the shallows, their blood pouring out pink as it mixed with the milk. D’Angelo hardly bothered to aim. Every blind shot killed. He blasted the adipose fin off a hen. He popped another fish in the belly. He shot one that was already dead, and the salmon dissolved, drifting away like a cloud. He stopped to reload, slipping the last shell into the chamber while eying Kype, who turned away and watched the stream flow by. The remaining fish, undisturbed, went about their business. A mating pair wove in the current above a redd, braiding the water with their bodies, releasing eggs and milt as if pollinating a flower. The hen eventually dropped back to fan gravel over the nest and cover her fertilized eggs and D’Angelo raised the gun and fired and she died without much agony, just a shiver and then her slowly gaping mouth, faintly protesting, as the current drew her down to the sea. “I oughta make you fuckers eat those dead fish!” Nell said. She was holding the urn and the bottle of bourbon hostage in her lap. “Those are my ancestors, you know. You killed my people!” “I’m sorry about your fish,” D’Angelo said. “And I’m sorry about your ancestors, too, but I think we’re just gonna have to let bygones be bygones. I don’t see any other solution. Be reasonable.” “You be reasonable!” Nell shouted. “We’re just going around in circles here,” D’Angelo said. “Young Kype wants Old Kype’s ashes back and Nell, honeybunch, what is it you want?” “I told you already.” She scooped out a handful of ashes and broadcast them into the river as if sowing seed. “Please don’t throw any more of those ashes,” Kype said. “Those fish were all sick,” D’Angelo said. She shook the urn in their faces. “This guy is dead! And you want him back, this burned-up old Ashtray Man!” They had been fighting forever, shouting over the waves, as the cove filled like a bowl, first with shadows, then with night. Now the moon was directly above them, a nimbus floating in the fog, as vague as a coin at the bottom of a well. Kype was cold and shivering in his clammy shirt. “I’m thirsty,” he said. “Have some milk,” Nell said. D’Angelo coaxed heat from the fire, stirring the embers, and then drew the harmonica from his shirt pocket. He tapped spit from the blowholes and then twisted his mouth over the instrument, but the miserable honking was no match for the sound of the crashing surf. He threw the harmonica at Nell. “Might as well have that, too,” he said. “They come here so we can eat,” Nell said. “What if they don’t come back next year?” She looked at both men, waiting for an answer. “That old woman, my great-grandmother, came here to bathe and pray every morning of her life.” “I can’t swim,” D’Angelo said. Under cover of dark, Kype stared at Nell. She had flat wide cheekbones like the Sphinx and he imagined that for a kiss all he would have to do was hold those bones, tip her head forward, and drink from her face. “O.K.,” he said. “I’ll do it.” “Smart man,” Nell said. “Otherwise bad spooky shit was gonna follow you everywhere and forever.” Nell patted a place in the sand and told Kype to lie down. She muddled ash and bourbon in the palm of her hand and then dipped her finger in the paste and painted a thick line down the middle of Kype’s forehead. “After this,” she said, “we’ll play the bone game.” She traced two circles around his eyes, enlarging them, and then brushed a black streak across each temple, giving him pointed ears. “You can win back the rest of these ashes,” she said. “I’m giving you that chance.” She drew fangs on either side of his mouth and whiskers that dashed away from his nose. “And then you got to go in that stream and clean yourself up,” she said, unbuttoning Kype’s shirt, “because you stink real bad. The spirits won’t come near you.” On his belly she made a school of crude fish, each like a lopsided Möbius strip. They swam out of his navel toward his heart and then migrated across his collarbone and up his throat to his mouth. Kype lay very still, hoping that Nell would draw fish on him forever. She said, “You got to get your soul back in your head. Somebody stole it, that’s my guess. Maybe it happened while you were sleeping. Or maybe you got a bad scare and it just jumped out of you. You ever feel the top of your head moving?” And just then he did, as if the top of his skull had been opened like a jar. Calmed by the flutter of Nell’s fingers at his throat, Kype closed his eyes and was surprised at the sudden vision of his grandfather, who slipped a hand in his and led him into the lobby of what had once been a very fine hotel. Now it seemed to be a home for retired sailors. Mariners sat in stuffed chairs and on dusty couches. The light in the lobby was dim and the air was dead-still and Kype suspected that even the hearts beating beneath the seafarers’ soup-stained shirts pumped like old leather bellows and blew nothing but gray ash. No one spoke a word. It was as if these sailors had been drawn back through time into a private darkness and all the waters of the world had retreated and finally gathered in their eyes, glassy reflections that floated like mirages on the surface of their dry and deserted faces. Kype’s grandfather pointed to the top of a grand staircase. When Kype reached the landing, he looked back, but the old man waved goodbye, and Kype continued on alone, down a long corridor, sensing that the moment he’d been promised all his life was now upon him. The hotel’s glory days still hung in the air, still haunted the rooms and halls. The velveteen wallpaper suggested a gay opulence gone seedy, empty linen closets lined the dark hallways, and dumbwaiters rose from a kitchen full of cold stoves. All the rooms had long braided cords, thick gold ropes that had once rung service bells but now summoned nothing. A door to one of the rooms opened, and Kype stood outside, where he watched a sailor twist his service rope into a noose and hang himself. Had the bells been working the old man might have lived, inadvertently calling for help as he swayed back and forth, but the tongues had been clipped long ago, and in the silence of that hotel the hoisted sailor strangled. Kype alone had a voice, but when he screamed for help a dove flushed from his mouth, crying, Alas, alas, and all he could do was stand in the hall and watch. The sailor died swinging, as if by a lanyard, in the empty air above his bed. A deeper quiet settled in the room, like the moral at the end of a fable. Kype now felt that he knew what all the sailors in the lobby knew. But that knowledge vanished as he opened his eyes. Nell was breaking a stick in half, marking one of the pieces with a band of black ash and leaving the other plain. He understood the rules even before she explained them, as if he’d played the bone game in a past life. Nell would shuffle the sticks behind her back and then all Kype had to do was point left or right and pick the one without the ash. For the first round, just to be fair, Nell agreed to put up her rhinestone hair clip against Kype’s Cadillac. “John Wayne gave it to my great-grandmother,” she said. “He just came up here and gave it to her?” D’Angelo said. “It used to belong to Pilar.” “Just pulled in and said, ‘Hiya, Grannie, I’m John Wayne, here’s a hair clip’?” “All those guys used to sail up from Hollywood in their yachts. John Wayne, Bing Crosby, Clark Gable. They came here to fish for salmon and they didn’t use no guns, either.” Nell hid her hands behind her back, shuffling the sticks, moving in tune to a song that seemed to have no real words and therefore, to Kype, at least, no beginning and no end. Over and over she sang he-ha-ya-ho-ho-ha-ya-ho-he, a loop of sound that made no more sense to Kype than the surf or the wind. He looked long and hard at her face, trying to see the truth, but his first guess was wrong, and so was his second, and in a matter of a few minutes he’d lost his car and his shoes. She shuffled and sang and Kype pointed to Nell’s right hand, and she showed him, once again, the unmarked stick. Between rounds Nell drummed, beating Kype’s shoes against a log, but the cadence was off, it seemed crazy and disruptive, working against the heart’s rhythm. The jumbled pounding made Kype tense and excited; it confused and deranged him, and then Nell started weaving taunts into her song. “You’re blind, he-ha-ya-ho,” she sang. “You can’t see, ho-ha-ya-ho-he.” As a game, it seemed no more complicated than a coin toss, and Kype kept playing, believing the odds would naturally swing in his favor. All he needed was time. “He-ha-ya-ho, your head’s got no top.” Nell now had the urn, the Eldorado, the bourbon, the harmonica, and the gun. Kype had never won games, although his life had always been presented to him as a kind of victory. He unbuckled his wristwatch. He lost his pants and the contents of his pockets. He discovered that losing didn’t really bother him. It wasn’t nearly the disaster he would have imagined. When his wallet was emptied of cash, he started writing I.O.U.s on old credit-card receipts. He pledged his collection of baseball cards, his Mickey Mantle, his Willie Mays, even pawning his autographed Don Mincher from the 1969 Seattle Pilots. Nell’s drumming drove time out of his mind. Unable to stop himself, he began to gamble away little pieces of his inheritance—an antique dining set and a muffineer and a box of costume jewelry that would complement Nell’s hair clip. He stood before her in his forlorn saggy white briefs but he didn’t feel cold. He had nothing, like all the great men—like Gandhi. Nothing, like Jesus. Nothing, like the Buddha! Nothing! he thought. Nothing! “Now you’ve got to swim,” Nell said. It was a shallow stream, but the current was strong. Kype clawed at the bed, his belly scraping over rocks, his ribs stabbed by snags that jutted from the banks. The slither of salmon passing over his back or brushing by his face gave Kype the feeling that he was running a gantlet, that hands were grabbing at him. He tried to fight his way upstream, but was tugged by his feet toward the sea. He took a deep breath and dunked below the surface. It was noisy, turbulent, not the quiet he had expected, and the water tasted like dirt. That surprised him, the faint scent, the trace of earth in the water, and it filled him with longing. As a lonely, disconsolate boy, he had watched container ships and tankers turn with the tide, watched them all day long, out his grandfather’s window, as if in their slow turning they were the hands of a large clock, a clock madly trying to mark time on a face of water. Behind the ships, farther west, he could see the headlands of an island. The island was privately owned and appeared only in detailed nautical maps, but as a child Kype had believed that it was his: everything that fell away, everything that died, all the broken promises and routine disappointments and lost hopes of his boyhood eventually washed up out there, or so he imagined. For him it was a kind of afterworld across the water, a combination of sacred ground and junkyard. The idea had begun when he reached the age where he understood that he had no father and for weeks he’d consoled himself, imagining that his dad was a desperado who had lammed it across the bay to that island. Later he believed that all the cowboys and Indians had gone to that island, too. Lost marbles, broken toasters, snapped shoelaces, odd socks, old TVs, and an endless series of small pets found a final home out there. The words to the bedtime prayers he no longer said were out there. Anything he couldn’t explain was out there. The good friends of his father’s whom he called Uncle, the men who came around for a while and then all of a sudden didn’t—they’d all left for the island. He hadn’t thought about the island in years, but now, as he fought the current, it came back to him with all the vivid romance of his childhood, and he imagined that his grandfather, old Kype, had set sail for that island. Young Kype’s soul was out there, too, he was sure of it, and so he kept swimming. Early the next morning, Kype stood in the dirt plaza outside the bait shop, picking blackberry thorns from his palm. His hands were bleeding and his arms were covered in fish scales, shimmering blue and pink sequins. His stomach was scraped and scarred and a deep bruising beneath his ribs made it hard to breathe. Nell had been asleep, curled in the sand, and D’Angelo had been snoring next to a log, clinging to it, perhaps afraid that he’d be swept out to sea. Kype had left them there, dressing quickly, grabbing the gun and what remained of his grandfather’s ashes and his car keys, wading quietly into the teeming river, through the crowd of spawning salmon. The stream was full, the dying still dying, the living continuing their run, while yesterday’s dead had been washed out to sea, making room for today’s. A couple of milk cartons hung in the reeds, but the water had cleared and was once again bright as crystal and shining with light. Kype knelt in the water and held one of the battered fish by the belly and looked into its eye, wondering what it might be thinking. He bowed his head and placed a kiss on the salmon’s cold lips, and then he eased the fish back into the river, letting it slip through his fingers. Climbing out of the cove, winding his way up the crooked path, Kype got banged up pretty good, but he had his ashes and his gun, and over there, parked in front of the chief’s yard, was the Eldorado. He felt in his pocket for his car keys and found a couple of the hasty I.O.U.s he’d written. In the light of a new day he was no longer able to imagine how Nell could possibly have believed that the bone game was for real. The whole fantastic ordeal seemed like a fevered dream, and as the remnants of last night’s hour of faith faded he felt strangely deserted. He cradled the urn in his arms and stood there as the sun rose over the water and the wind came up, blowing sand and dust across the plaza. The small white shacks started to glow. The old woman came outside and sat with her blanket and strange cedar crown, warming her face in the sun. The scene was as stubborn and enduring as a monument, and to Kype it seemed as if the dust rising in whorls off the road had claimed these people, all of them arranged just as they had been the day before. The little girl stood in the street, looking east, shielding her eyes against the rising sun. The old man walked by with the same hesitant shuffle, his feet dragging as he stooped forward and followed his shadow across the road. The engine swayed above the old DeSoto and the open toolbox and the coffee cup still rested on the fender, as if work might begin at any moment. Salmon season was over, but otherwise nothing had changed. 
My Father’s Tears Come to think of it, I saw my father cry only once. It was at the Alton train station, back when the trains still ran. I was on my way to Philadelphia to catch the train that would return me to Boston and college. I was eager to go, for already my home and my parents had become somewhat unreal to me, and college, with its courses and the hopes for my future they inspired and the girlfriend I had acquired in my sophomore year, had become more real every semester; it shocked me—threw me off track, as it were—to see that my father’s eyes, as he shook my hand goodbye, glittered with tears. I blamed it on our shaking hands: for eighteen years, we had never had occasion for this ritual, this manly contact, and we had groped our way into it only in the past few years. He was taller than I, though I was not short, and I realized, his hand warm in mine while he tried to smile, that he had a different perspective than I. I was going somewhere, and he was seeing me go. I was growing in my own sense of myself, and to him I was getting smaller. He had loved me, it came to me as never before. It was something that had not needed to be said before, and now his tears were saying it. The old Alton station was his kind of place, savoring of transit and the furtive small pleasures of city life. I had bought my first pack of cigarettes here, with no protest from the man running the newsstand, though I was a young-looking fifteen. He simply gave me my change and a folder of matches advertising Sunshine beer, Alton’s local brand. Alton was a middle-sized industrial city that had been depressed ever since the textile mills began to slide South. In the meantime, with its orderly street grid and hearty cuisine, it still supplied its citizens with traditional comforts and an illusion of well-being. I lit up a block from the station, as I remember, and even though I didn’t know how to inhale, my nerves took a hit; the sidewalk seemed to lift toward me and the whole world felt lighter. From that day forward I began to catch up, socially, with the more glamorous of my peers, who already smoked. Even my stay-at-home mother, no traveller but a reader, had a connection to the station: it was the only place in the city where you could buy The American Mercury and The Atlantic Monthly. Like the stately Carnegie library two blocks down Franklin Street, it was a place you felt safe inside. It had been built for eternity, when the railroads looked to be with us forever—a foursquare granite temple with marble floors, a high ceiling whose gilded coffers glinted through a coating of coal smoke, and tall-backed waiting benches as grave as church pews. The radiators clanked and the walls murmured as if giving back some of the human noise they absorbed, day and night. The newsstand and coffee shop were usually busy, and the waiting room was always warm, as my father and I had discovered on more than one winter night. We had been commuters to the same high school, he as a teacher and I as a student, in secondhand cars that on more than one occasion failed to start, or got stuck in a snowstorm. We would make our way to the station, one place sure to be open. We did not foresee, that moment on the platform as the signal bells a half mile down the tracks warned of my train’s approach, that within a decade passenger service to Philadelphia would stop, and that eventually the station, like stations all across the East, would be padlocked and boarded up. It stood on its empty acre of asphalt parking space like an oversized mausoleum. All the life it had once contained was sealed into silence, and for most of the rest of the century it ignominiously waited, in this city where progress was slow, to be razed. But my father did foresee, the glitter in his eyes told me, that time consumes us—that the boy I had been was dying if not already dead, and we would have less and less to do with each other. I had taken my life from his, and now I was stealing away with it. The train appeared, the engine, with its shining long connecting rods and high steel wheels, out of all proportion to the little soft bodies it dragged along. I boarded it. My parents looked smaller, foreshortened. We waved sheepishly through the smirched glass. I opened my book—“The Complete Poetical Works of John Milton”—before Alton’s gritty outskirts had fallen away. At the end of that long day of travel, getting off not at Boston’s South Station but at Back Bay, one stop earlier and closer to Cambridge, I was met by my girlfriend. How swanky that felt, to read Milton all day, the relatively colorless and hard-to-memorize pentameters of “Paradise Regained,” and, in sight of the other undergraduates disembarking, to be met and embraced on the platform by a girl—no, a woman—wearing a gray cloth coat, canvas tennis sneakers, and a ponytail. It must have been spring break, because if Deb was greeting me the vacation had been too short for her to go back and forth to St. Louis, where her home was. Instead, she had been waiting a week for me to return. She tended to underdress in the long New England winter, while I wore the heavy winter coat, with buckled belt and fleecy lining, that my parents had bought me, to my embarrassment, to keep me from catching colds up in New England. She told me, as we rode first the Green Line and then the Red back to Harvard Square, what had happened to her that week. There had been an unpredicted snow squall, whose sullied traces were still around us, and she was angry to the point of tears at having been given, because of her college education, in the restaurant where she was a part-time waitress, the assignment of adding up numbers in the basement while the other waitresses pocketed all the tips. I told her what I could recall of my week in Pennsylvania, already faded in memory except for the detail lodged there like a glittering splinter—my father’s tears. My own eyes itched and burned after a day of reading in a jiggling train; I lifted them only to admire the shining water as the train travelled the stretch of track around New London. In the years when we were newly married and still childless, Deb and I would spend a summer month with each set of parents. Her father was an eminent Unitarian minister, who preached in a gray neo-Gothic edifice built for eternity near the Washington University campus. Each June he moved his family from the roomy brick parsonage on Lindell Boulevard to an abandoned Vermont farmhouse he had bought in the nineteen-thirties for less than five hundred dollars. Some Junes, Deb and I arrived before her father’s parish duties permitted him and the rest of his family, a wife and two other daughters, to be there. The chilly solitude of the place, with basic cold-water plumbing but no electricity, high on a curving dirt road whose only visible house, a half mile away, was occupied by another Unitarian minister, reinforced my sense of having moved up, thanks to my blue-eyed bride, into a new, more elevated and spacious territory. The lone bathroom was a long room, its plaster walls and wooden floor both bare, that was haunted by a small but intense rainbow, which moved around the walls as the sun in the course of the day glinted at a changing angle off the bevelled edge of the mirror on the medicine cabinet. When we troubled to heat up enough water on the kerosene stove for a daylight bath, the prismatically generated rainbow kept the bather company; it quivered and bobbed when footsteps or a breath of wind made the house tremble. To me this Ariel-like phenomenon was the magical child of Unitarian austerity, symbolic of the lofty attitude that sought out a primitive farmhouse as a relief from well-furnished urban comfort. It had to do, I knew, drawing upon my freshly installed education, with idealism, with Emerson and Thoreau, with self-reliance and taking Nature on Nature’s terms. A large side room in the house, well beyond the kerosene stove’s narrow sphere of warmth, held a big loom frame that had come with the house, and an obsolete encyclopedia, and a set, with faded spines, of aged but rarely touched books entitled “The Master Works of World Philosophy.” When I broke precedent by taking one of the volumes down, its finely ridged cloth cover gave my fingers an unpleasant tingle. It was the volume containing selections from Emerson’s essays. “Every natural fact is a symbol of some spiritual fact,” I read, and “Everything is made of one hidden stuff,” and “Every hero becomes a bore at last,” and “We boil at different degrees.” Deb used this large room, and the vine-shaded stone porch outside, to paint her careful oils and pale watercolors. When the day was sunny, and heating the tub water on the kerosene stove seemed too much trouble, we bathed in the mountain creek an easy walk from the house, in a pond whose dam her father had designed and built. I wanted to take her nude photograph with my Brownie Hawkeye, but she primly declined. One day I sneaked a few snapshots anyway, from the old bridge, while she, with exclamations that drowned out the noise of the shutter, waded in and took the plunge. It was in Vermont, before the others arrived, that, by our retrospective calculations, we conceived our first child, unintentionally but with no regrets. This microscopic event deep within my bride became allied in my mind with the little rainbow low on the bathroom wall, our pet imp of refraction. Her father, when he arrived, was a father I wasn’t used to. Mine, though he had sufficient survival skills, enacted the role of an underdog, a man whose every day, at school or elsewhere, proceeded through a series of scrapes and embarrassments. The car wouldn’t start, the students wouldn’t behave. He needed people, the rub of them, for stimulation. Reverend Whitworth liked Vermont because, compared with St. Louis, it had no people in it. He didn’t leave his hill for weeks at a time, letting the rest of us drive the two miles of dirt road to the nearest settlement, where the grocery store, the hardware store, and the post office all occupied one building, with one proprietor, who also managed the local sawmill. We would come back with local gossip and a day-old newspaper, and my father-in-law would listen to our excited tales of the greater world with a tilted head and a slant smile that let us guess he wasn’t hearing a word. He had things to do: he built stone walls, and refined the engineering of his dam, and took a daily nap, during which the rest of us were to be silent. He was a handsome man, with a head of tightly wiry hair whose graying did not diminish its density, but he was frail inside from rheumatic fever in his Maine boyhood. Rural peace, the silence of woods, the sway and flicker of kerosene light as drafts blew on the flaming wick and lamps were carried from room to room—these were his elements, not city bustle. During these hilltop vacation months, he moved among us—his wife, his three daughters, his son-in-law, his wife’s spinster sister—like a planet exempt from the law of gravitational attraction. His interactions came mostly with games, which he methodically tended to win—family croquet in the afternoons, family Hearts in the evening, in the merged auras of the kerosene stove and the mantle lamp on the table. This was a special lamp, which intensified and whitened the glow of a flame with a mantle, a kind of conical net of ash so delicate it could be broken by even a carelessly rough setting-down of the glass base on the table. Reverend Whitworth was ostentatiously careful in everything his hands did, and I resented this, with the implacable ressentiment of youth. I resented his fussy pipesmoker’s gestures as he tamped and lighted and puffed; I resented his strictly observed naps, his sterling blue eyes (which Deb had inherited), his untroubled Unitarianism. Somehow, in my vicinity of Pennsylvania blue eyes were so rare as to be freakish—hazel was as far as irises ventured from the basic brown the immigrants from Wales and southern Germany had brought to the Schuylkill Valley. As for Unitarianism, it seemed so milky, so smugly vague and evasive: an unimpeachably featureless dilution of the Christian religion as I had met it in its Lutheran form—the whole implausible, colorful, comforting tapestry of the Incarnation and the Magi, Christmas carols and Santa Claus, Adam and Eve, nakedness and the Tree of the Knowledge of Good and Evil, the serpent and the Fall, betrayal in the garden and Redemption on the Cross, “Why hast Thou forsaken me?” and Pilate washing his hands and Resurrection on the third day, posthumous suppers in an upper room and doubting Thomas and angels haunting the shadier margins of Jerusalem, the instructions to the disciples and Paul’s being knocked from his donkey on the road to Damascus and the disciples talking in tongues (a practice at which the stolid churchgoers of Alton and its environs did draw the line). Our public-school day began with a Bible reading and the Lord’s Prayer; our teachers and bankers and undertakers and mailmen all professed to be conventional Christians, and what was good enough for them should have been, I think I thought, good enough for Unitarians. I had read enough Kierkegaard and Barth and Unamuno to know about the leap of faith, and Reverend Whitworth was not making that leap; he was taking naps and building stone walls instead. In his bedroom I spotted a paperback Tillich, “The Courage to Be,” probably, but I never caught him reading it, or “The Master Works of World Philosophy,” either. The only time I felt him as a holy man was when, speaking with deliberate tenderness to one of his three daughters, he slipped into a “thee” or “thou” from his Quaker boyhood. He was to be brought low, all dignity shed, before he died. Alzheimer’s didn’t so much invade his brain as deepen the benign fuzziness and preoccupation that had always been there. At the memorial service for his wife, dead of cancer, he turned to me before the service began and said, with a kindly though puzzled smile, “Well, James, I don’t quite know what’s up, but I guess it will all come clear.” He didn’t realize that his wife of forty-five years was being memorialized. With her gone, he deteriorated rapidly. At the nursing home where we finally took him, he began to whimper at the admission desk, and jiggle up and down as if bouncing something in his pants, and I knew he needed to urinate, but I lacked the manliness to lead him quickly to the lavatory and take his penis out of his fly for him, so he wet himself and the floor. I was, in those years just before my divorce from Deb, the eldest son-in-law, the first mate, as it were, of the extended family, and I was failing in my role, though still taking a certain pride in it. My father-in-law had always, curiously, from those first summers in Vermont, trusted me—trusted me first with his daughter’s well-being, and then with helping him lift the stones into place on his wall, where I could have pinched one of his fingers or dropped a rock on his toes. I loved him, in fact. As innocent of harm as my own father, he made fewer demands on those around him. A little silence during his nap does not seem, now, too much to ask, though at the time it irritated me. His theology, or lack of it, seems one of the spacious views I enjoyed thanks to him. His was a cosmos from which the mists of superstition had almost cleared. His parish, there in the Gateway to the West, included university existentialists, and some of their hip philosophy buffed up his old-fashioned transcendentalist sermons, which he delivered in a beautiful voice, tentatively. Though Unitarian, he was of the theist branch, Deb would tell me in bed, hoping to mediate between us. I wasn’t, as I remember it, graceless enough to quarrel with him often, but he could not have been ignorant of my Harvard neo-orthodoxy, with its Eliotic undercurrent of panic. In Vermont, my household task was to burn the day’s wastepaper, in a barrel up the slope behind the house, toward the spring that supplied our cold water. One could look across twenty miles of wooded valley to the next ridge of the Green Mountains. With Reverend Whitworth’s blessing, I had been admitted to a world of long views and icy swims and New England reticence. He was a transparently good man who took himself with a little Maine salt. It is easy to love people in memory; the hard trick is to love them when they are there, in front of you. Pennsylvania had its different tensions for Deb and me. We had gotten off to a bad start. The first time I brought her home to meet my parents, we disembarked at the wrong train station. The train from Philadelphia was a local. One of its stops was a hilly factory town seven miles from Alton, also along the Schuylkill and closer by a few miles to the country farmhouse to which we had moved, at my mother’s instigation, after the war. We were among a handful of passengers to get off the train, and the platform in its tunnel of trees soon emptied. No one had come to meet us. My parents, in spite of arrangements clear in my own mind—I was trying to save them mileage—had gone to Alton. Now I wonder how, in that era before cell phones, we managed to make contact. But in that same era even little railroad stations still were manned; perhaps the stationmaster telegraphed word of our plight to Alton and had my parents paged in the echoing great station. Or perhaps, by the mental telegraphy that used to operate in backward regions, they guessed the truth when we didn’t disembark and simply drove to where we were. I was a young swain, and Deb, so securely in her element in St. Louis or Cambridge, seemed lost in my home territory. I kept failing to protect her from our primitive ways. Blamelessly, she kept doing things wrong. Though we were not yet married, she had put some dirty socks and underwear of mine through her own laundry, and packed them, clean, in her suitcase. When my mother, helpfully hovering in the guest bedroom, noticed this transposition, she let loose one of her silent bursts of anger, a merciless succession of waves that dyed an angry red V on her forehead, between the eyebrows, and filled the little sandstone house to its corners, upstairs and down. The house of my childhood, in the town of Olinger, a mere trolley-car ride from Alton, had been a long narrow brick one, with a long back yard, so there were places to escape to when my mother was, in my father’s bemused phrase, “throwing an atmosphere.” But in the new house we could all hear one another turn over in bed at night, and even the out-of-doors, buzzing with insects and seething with weeds, offered no escape from my mother’s psychological heat. I had grown up with her aggrieved moods, turned on usually by adult conflicts out of my sight and hearing. She could maintain one for days until, coming home from school or a friend’s house, I would find it miraculously lifted. Her temper was part of my growing up, like Pennsylvania mugginess and the hot spells that could kill old people in their stifling row houses and expand the steel tracks on the street enough to derail trolley cars. Whispering, I tried to apologize for this climate to Deb, while my mother’s sulk, which had frozen all our tongues during dinner, continued to emanate from her bedroom down into the living room. The click of her latch had reverberated above us like a thunderclap. “You didn’t do anything wrong,” I assured Deb, though in my heart I felt that offending my mother was wrong, a primal wrong. I blamed Deb for mixing up my underwear with hers; she should have anticipated the issue, the implications. “It’s the way she is.” “Well, she should wake up and get over it” was Deb’s response, so loud I feared it could be heard upstairs. Amazed, I realized that she wasn’t tuned as finely as I to the waves of my mother’s anger. Near the sofa where we sat, my father, dolefully correcting math papers in the rocking chair, said, “Mildred doesn’t mean anything by it. It’s her femininity acting up.” Femininity explained and justified everything for his sexist generation, but not for mine. I was mortified by this tension. That same visit, perhaps, or later, Deb, thinking she was doing a good deed, began on Sunday morning to weed the patch of pansies my mother had planted near the back porch and then neglected. Deb stood uncomprehending, her feet sweetly bare in the soft soil, like Ingrid Bergman’s in “Stromboli,” when I explained that around here nobody worked on Sundays; they went to church. “How silly,” Deb said. “My father all summer does his walls and things on Sundays.” “He’s a different denomination.” “Jim, I can’t believe this. I really can’t.” “Sh-h-h. She’s inside, banging dishes around.” “Well, let her. They’re her dishes.” “And we have to get ready for church.” “I didn’t bring church clothes.” “Just put on shoes and the dress you wore down on the train.” “Shit I will. I’d look ridiculous. I’d rather stay here and weed. Your grandparents will be staying, won’t they?” “My grandmother. My grandfather goes. He reads the Bible every day on the sofa, haven’t you noticed?” “I didn’t know there were places like this left in America.” “Well—” My answer was going to be lame, she saw, so she interrupted, with those sterling blue eyes. “I see now where you get your nonsense from, being so rude to Daddy.” I was scandalized but thrilled, perceiving that a defense against my mother was possible. In the event, Deb stayed with my grandmother, who was disabled and speechless with Parkinson’s disease. My rudeness to Reverend Whitworth was revenged when, baptizing our first child, his first grandchild, in a thoroughly negotiated Unitarian family service in the house of her Lutheran grandparents, he made a little joke about the “holy water”—water fetched from our own spring, which was down below the house instead of, as in Vermont, up above it. My mother sulked for the rest of the day about that, and always spoke of Catherine, our first child, as “the baby who didn’t get baptized.” By the time the three other babies arrived, Deb and I had moved to Massachusetts, where we had met and courted, and joined the Congregational Church as a reasonable compromise. We are surrounded by holy water; all water, our chemical mother, is holy. Flying from Boston to New York, my habit is to take a seat on the right-hand side of the plane, but the other day I sat on the left, and was rewarded, at that hour of midmorning, by the sun’s reflections on the waters of Connecticut—not just the rivers and the Sound but little ponds and pools and glittering threads of water that for a few seconds hurled silver light skyward into my eyes. My father’s tears for a moment had caught the light; that is how I saw them. When he was dead, Deb and I divorced. Why? It’s hard to say. We boil at different degrees, Emerson said, and a woman came along who had my boiling point. The snapshots I took of Deb naked, interestingly, she claimed as part of her just settlement. It seemed to me they were mine—I’d taken them. But she said her body was hers. After our divorce, my mother told me, of my father, “He worried about you two from the first time you brought her home. He didn’t think she was feminine enough for you.” “He was big on femininity,” I said, not knowing whether to believe her or not. The dead are so easy to misquote. My reflex is always to come to Deb’s defense, even though it was I who wanted the divorce. It shocks me, at my high-school class reunions, when my classmates bother to tell me how much they prefer my second wife. It is true, Sylvia really mixes it up with them, in a way that Deb shyly didn’t. But then Deb assumed that they were part of my past, something I had put behind me but reunited with every five years or so, whereas Sylvia, knowing me in my old age, recognizes that I have never really left Pennsylvania, that it is where the self I value is stored, however infrequently I check on its condition. The most recent reunion, the fifty-fifth, might have depressed Deb—all these people in their early seventies, most of them still living in the county within a short drive of where they had been born, even in the same semi-detached house where they had been raised. Some came in wheelchairs, and some were too sick to drive and were chauffeured to the reunion by their middle-aged children. The list of our deceased classmates on the back of the program grows longer; the class beauties are gone to fat or bony cronehood; the sports stars and non-athletic alike move about with the aid of pacemakers and plastic knees, retired and taking up space at an age when most of our fathers were considerately dead. But we don’t see ourselves that way, as lame and old. We see kindergarten children—the same round fresh faces, the same cup ears and long-lashed eyes. We hear the gleeful shrieking during elementary-school recess and the seductive saxophones and muted trumpets of the homebred swing bands that serenaded the blue-lit gymnasium during high-school dances. We see in each other the enduring simplicities of a town rendered changeless by Depression and then by a world war whose bombs never reached us, though rationing and toy tanks and air-raid drills did. Old rivalries are rekindled and put aside; old romances flare for a moment and subside into the general warmth, the diffuse love. When the class secretary, dear Ann Mahlon, her luxuriant head of chestnut curls now whiter than bleached laundry, takes the microphone and runs us through a quiz on the old days—teachers’ nicknames, the names of vanished luncheonettes and ice-cream parlors, the titles of our junior and senior plays, the winner of the scrap drive in third grade—the answers are shouted out on all sides. Not one piece of trivia stumps us: we were there, together, then, and the spouses, Sylvia among them, good-naturedly applaud so much long-hoarded treasure of useless knowing. These were not just my classmates; they had been my father’s students, and his memory kept coming up. He was several times the correct answer—“Mr. Werley!”—in Ann Mahlon’s quiz. Cookie Behn, who had been deposited in our class by his failing grades and who, a year older than we, already had Alzheimer’s, kept coming up to me in the circulation after dinner, squinting as if at a strong light and huskily, ardently asking me, “Your father, Jimbo—is he still with us?” He had forgotten the facts but remembered that saying “still alive,” like the word “dead,” was somehow tactless. “No, Cookie,” I said each time. “He died in 1972, of his second heart attack.” Oddly, it did not feel absurd to be calling a seventy-four-year-old man on a pronged cane Cookie. He nodded, his expression grave as well as mildly puzzled. “I’m sorry to hear that,” he said. I said, “I’m sorry to tell you,” though my father would have been over a hundred and running up big bills in a nursing home. “And your mother, Jim?” Cookie persisted. “She outlived him by seventeen years,” I told him, curtly, as if I resented the fact. “She was a happy widow.” “She was a very dignified lady,” he said slowly, nodding as if to agree with himself. It touched me that he was attempting to remember my mother, and that what he said was, after all, true enough of her in her relations with the outside world. She had been outwardly dignified and, in her youth, beautiful or, as she once put it to me during her increasingly frank long widowhood, “not quite beautiful.” My father had died when Deb and I were in Italy. We had gone there, with another couple in trouble, to see if we couldn’t make the marriage “work.” Our hotel in Florence was a small one with a peek at the Arno; returning from a trip to Fiesole—its little Roman stadium, its little museum—we had impulsively decided, the four of us, to have an afternoon drink in the hotel’s upstairs café, rather than return to the confinement of our rooms. The place was empty except for some Germans drinking beer in a corner, and some Italians standing up with espressos at the bar. If I heard the telephone ring at all, I assumed it had nothing to do with me. But the bartender came from behind the bar and walked over to me and said, “Signor Wer-lei? Telephone for you.” Who could know I was here? It was my mother, sounding very small and scratchy. “Jimmy? Were you having fun? I’m sorry to disturb you.” “I’m impressed you could find me.” “The operators helped,” she explained. “What’s happened, Mother?” “Your father’s in the hospital. With his second heart attack.” “How bad is it?” “Well, he sat up in the car as I drove him into Alton.” “Well, then, it isn’t too bad.” There was a delay in her responses that I blamed on the transatlantic cable. She said at last, “I wouldn’t be too sure of that.” Except when we talked on the telephone, I never noticed what a distinct Pennsylvania accent my mother had. When we were face to face, her voice sounded as transparent as my own. “He woke up with this pressing feeling on his chest, and usually he ignores it. He didn’t today. It’s noon here now.” “So you want me to come back,” I accused her. I knew my father wouldn’t want me inconvenienced. We had reservations for the Uffizi tomorrow. She sighed; the cable under the ocean crackled. “Jimmy, I think you better. You and Deb, of course, unless she’d rather stay there and enjoy the art. Dr. Shirk doesn’t like what he’s hearing, and you know how hard to impress he usually is.” This was before open-heart surgery and angioplasty; there was little for doctors to do then but listen with a stethoscope and prescribe nitroglycerin. The concierge looked up the next train to Rome, the other couple saw us to the Florence station—just beyond the Medici chapels, which we had always wanted to see, and were destined never to see together. In Rome, the taxi-driver found an airline office that was open. I will never forget the courtesy and patience with which that young airline clerk, in his schoolbook English, took our tickets to Boston the next week and converted them into tickets to Philadelphia the next day. More planes flew then. We made an evening flight to London, and had to lay over for the night. On the side of Heathrow away from London there turned out to be a world of new, tall hotels for passengers in transit. We got into our room around midnight. I called my mother—it was suppertime in Pennsylvania—and learned that my father was dead. To my mother, it was news a number of hours old, and she described in weary retrospect her afternoon of sitting in the Alton hospital and receiving increasingly dire reports. She said, “Doc Shirk said he fought real hard at the end. It was ugly.” I hung up, and shared the news with Deb. She put her arms around me in the bed and told me, “Cry.” Though I saw the opportunity, and the rightness of it, I don’t believe I did. My father’s tears had used up mine. 
The Deposition The witness was playing hard to get. Statements he had made earlier to his girlfriend, another nurse, statements crucial to Burke’s case, the witness now declined to repeat under oath. He claimed not to remember just what he had said, or even to recall clearly the episode in question: an instance of surgical haste and sloppiness amounting to malpractice. As the result of a routine procedure—removal of a ganglion cyst—outrageously, indefensibly botched, Burke’s client had lost the fine motor functions of her left hand. She’d worked the reservations desk at a car-rental office; what was to become of a fifty-eight-year-old booking agent who could no longer use a keyboard? Burke decided to ask for a breather. He had flown out from San Francisco just the day before to take this important deposition in person. He was still ragged from the long, unpleasant journey: delayed departure from SFO, a run through Dulles to make his puddle jumper to Albany, then the poky drive upriver to New Delft. Long trip, sleepless night. He’d shown some temper at the witness’s forgetfulness, and the witness had in turn become sullen and grudging, the last thing Burke wanted. He hoped that a little time off would cool things down and allow the man’s conscience to help out his memory, if he was still open to such influences. Burke suspected that he was. Witness’s counsel agreed to the break: forty-five minutes. Burke turned down the offer of coffee and cookies in favor of a brisk walk. He left the building, a Federal mansion converted to law offices, and started down the hill toward the river. It was a fine October afternoon, warm and golden, trees ablaze, air dense with the must of fallen leaves. That smell, the honeyed light . . . Burke faltered in his march, subdued by the memory of days like this in his childhood home in Ohio. There was that one Indian summer, his junior year in high school, when day after day, flooded with desire, shaking with it, he’d hurried to an older girl’s house to glory in her boldness for a mad hour before her mother got home from work. Julie Ann Rose. The hourglass birthmark on her throat . . . he could still see it, and the filmy curtains fluttering at her bedroom window, the brilliance of the leaves stirring in the warm breeze. But what crap!—wallowing in nostalgia for a place he’d come to despise, and dreamed of escaping. The distance down to the river was greater than Burke had thought. He was a big bull-shouldered man who struggled to trim his bulk with exercise and diets, but he’d been putting in long hours lately, eating on the fly and missing his workouts; even this easy jaunt was making him sweat. He loosened his tie. When he reached the bottom of the hill, he took off his suit jacket and flung it over his shoulder. Burke had hoped to find a path beside the river, but the way was barred by a pair of factory buildings that loomed along the bank behind a padlocked chain-link fence. The factories were derelict, bricks falling from the walls, all but the highest windows broken; these glittered gaily in the late sunshine. Splintered pallets lay here and there across the weed-cracked asphalt of the factory yards. This scene told a story already familiar to Burke. He regarded it sourly, then turned away. He followed the fence a few blocks before circling back uphill on what appeared to be a commercial street. A cloying, briny smell poured from the open door of a Chinese takeout. Burke saw a half-eaten plate of noodles surrounded by soy-sauce packets on the single table inside. The bespectacled woman at the counter glanced up from her newspaper to meet his gaze. He looked away and walked on, past an old movie theatre with empty poster casings and a blank marquee; past a dog-grooming salon, its windows filled with faded snapshots of a man with orange hair grinning over various pooches made ridiculous by his labors; past a five-and-dime converted to a Goodwill, and a tailor shop with a “Closed” sign in the window. On the corner stood an abandoned Mobil station, windows boarded over, the pumps gone. Burke stopped and looked up at the winged red horse still rearing over the lot. Then he took in the block he had just travelled. A stooped woman in an overcoat was making her way down the opposite sidewalk—the only person in sight. It might have been a street in his home town, with its own bankrupt industries and air of stagnation. Burke’s widowed mother still lived in the old house. He visited dutifully with his wife, who claimed to find the town charming and soothingly tranquil, but Burke couldn’t imagine living there, and wasn’t sure how anyone else did. To be on such comfortable terms with exhaustion and decline . . . It seemed to him that for all the talk of family and faith and neighborliness—the heartland virtues held up in rebuke of competitive, materialistic Gomorrahs like San Francisco—there was something not quite wholesome in this placidity, something lazy and sensual. Burke felt it when he wandered the streets of his home town, and he felt it now. He crossed against the light, quickening his pace; he would have to move smartly to make it back in time. All signs of commerce ended at the gas station. He passed several blocks of small houses squeezed together on puny lots—no doubt the homes of those who’d spent their lives in the factories. Most of the houses were in bad repair: roofs sagging, screens rusting out. No disposable income here. Burke knew the story—he’d bet the farm on it. Unions broken, or bought off. Salaries and benefits steadily cut under threat of layoffs that happened anyway as the work went to foreign wage slaves, the owners meanwhile conjuring up jolly visions of the corporate “family” and better days to come, before selling out just in time to duck the fines for a century of fouling the river; then the new owners, vultures with M.B.A.s, gliding in to sack the pension fund before declaring bankruptcy. Burke knew the whole story and it disgusted him, especially the workers who’d let the owners screw them like this while patting them on the head, congratulating them for being the backbone of the country, salt of the earth, the true Americans. Jesus! And still they ate it up, and voted like robbers instead of the robbed. Served them right. Burke’s pounding heart sent a rush of heat to his face and left him strangely light-headed, as if he were floating above the sidewalk. He stretched out, taking the hill in long pushing strides. A boy with blond dreadlocks was raking leaves into a garbage bag. As Burke passed, the boy leaned on the rake and gaped at him, a jarring, surflike percussion leaking from his earphones. The whole country was being hollowed out like this, devoured from the inside, and nobody was fighting back. It was embarrassing, vaguely shameful, to watch people get pushed around without a fight. That’s why he’d taken on his little pop-eyed pug of a client with her fucked-up hand—she was a battler. Stonewalled every step of the way, bombarded with demands for documents, secretly videotaped, insulted with dinky settlement offers, even threatened with a countersuit, she just lowered her head and kept coming. She’d spent all her savings going after the surgeon who’d messed her up, to the point where she’d had to move to San Francisco to live with her son, a paralegal in Burke’s firm. Her lawyer back here in New Delft had suffered a stroke and bowed out. The case was a long shot but Burke had taken it on contingency, because he saw that she wouldn’t back off, she’d keep pushing to the end. And now it seemed that she might have a chance after all. They’d got a break the past month, hearing about the complaints this nurse had made to his now embittered ex-girlfriend. The account Burke had of these conversations was hearsay, not enough in itself to take to court or even to compel a fair settlement, but it told him that the witness harbored feelings of guilt and anger—that he had pride, and resented being made party to a maiming. He was no doubt under great pressure to stand by the surgeon, but he had not actually denied seeing what he’d seen or saying what he’d said. He simply claimed not to recall any of it clearly. What a man forgets he can remember. It was a question of will. And even in the witness’s evasions Burke could detect his reluctance to lie, and, beyond that, his desire, not yet decisive but persistent and troubling, to tell the truth. Burke believed that he had a gift for sensing not only a person’s truthfulness in response to a given question but, more important, his natural inclination toward the truth. It was like a homing instinct in those who had it. No matter what the risk, no matter how carefully they might have defended themselves with equivocation and convenient lapses of memory, it was still there, fidgeting to be recognized. Over the years, Burke had brought considerable skill to the work of helping people overcome their earlier shufflings and suppressions, even their self-interest, to say what they really wanted to say. The nurse needed to tell his story; Burke was sure of it, and sure of his own ability to coax the story forth. He would master this coy witness. And as Burke thought how he would do this he felt himself moving with ease for the first time that day. He had his rhythm and his wind, a pleasant sense of strength; but for his flimsy, very expensive Italian loafers, he might have broken into a run. The houses grew larger as he climbed, the lawns deeper and darker. Great maples arched high above the street. Burke slowed to watch a sudden fall of leaves, how they rocked and dipped and stalled in their descent, eddying in gusts so light and warm he barely felt them on the back of his neck, like teasing breaths. Then a bus roared past and pulled to the curb just ahead, and the doors hissed open, and the girl stepped out. Burke held back—though barely aware of holding back, or of the catch in his throat. She was tall, magnificently tall to his eyes. He caught just a glance of lips painted black before her long dark hair swung forward and veiled her face as she looked down to find her footing on the curb. She stopped on the sidewalk and watched the bus pull away in a belch of black smoke. Then she slipped her bag off her shoulder and stretched luxuriously, going up on her toes, hands raised high above her head. Still on tiptoe, she joined her fingers and pushed her hips from side to side. She was no more than twenty feet away, but it was clear to Burke that she hadn’t noticed him, that she thought she was alone out here. He felt himself smile. He waited. She dropped her arms, did a few neck rolls, then hiked her bag back onto her shoulder and started up the street. He followed, matching his pace to hers. She walked slowly, with the deliberate, almost flat-footed tread of a dancer, toes turned slightly out. She was humming a song. Her knee-length plaid skirt swayed a little as she walked, but she held her back straight and still. The white blouse she wore had two sweat spots below her shoulder blades; Burke could picture her leaning back against the plastic seat on the bus, drowsing in the swampy air as men stole looks at her over their folded papers. The tone of her humming changed; grew more rhythmic, less tuneful. Her hips rolled under the skirt, her shoulders shifting in subtle counterpoint. Her legs were very white and on the back of her right calf there was a dark spot the size of a penny—maybe a mole, or a daub of mud. She fell silent and reached into her bag. It was a large canvas bag, full to bulging, but she found what she was after without looking down and brought it out and slipped it over her wrist, a furry red band. She reached both hands behind her neck and gathered her hair and lifted it and gave her head a shake and let her hair fall back. She was moving even more slowly now, languorously, dreamily. Again she reached back and lifted her hair and began twisting it into a single strand. In one motion, she gave a last twist and slid the red band off her wrist and up the thick dark rope of hair, pulled it forward over her shoulder, and commenced picking at the ends. Burke stared at the curve of her neck, so white, so bare. It looked damp and tender. She went on in her slow glide and he followed. He had been walking in time with her, but such was his absorption that he lost the beat, and at the sound of his footsteps she wheeled about and looked into his face. Burke was right behind her—he had somehow closed the distance without realizing it. Her eyes went wide. He was held by them, fixed. They were a deep bruised blue, almost violet, and darkly rimmed with liner. He heard her suck in a long ragged breath. Burke tried to speak, to reassure her, but his throat was tight and dry; not a sound came. He swallowed. He couldn’t think what to say. He stood looking into her face. Blotchy white skin, the pathetic hipness of the black lips. But those eyes, the high lovely brow. Beautiful; more beautiful even than he had imagined. The girl took a step back, her eyes still holding his, then turned and began angling across a lawn toward a large white house. Halfway there, she broke into a run. This somehow released Burke. He continued on his way, deliberately keeping himself to a dignified pace, even stopping for a moment to put on his suit jacket—shoot the cuffs, shrug into the shoulders, give a tug at the lapels. He did not allow himself to look back. As the tightness in his throat eased, he found himself hungry for air, almost panting, and realized that he had hardly taken a breath while walking behind the girl. How frightened she had been! What was that all about, anyway? He put this question to himself with a bravado that he did not feel. He knew; he knew what had been in his face. He let it go. Burke walked on. He had just reached the top of the hill, some nine or ten long blocks from where he’d left the girl, and was about to turn right, toward the law office, already in view at the end of the cross street, when he heard a siren yelp behind him. Only the one sharp imperative cry, nothing more—but he recognized the sound, and stopped and closed his eyes for a moment before turning to watch the cruiser nosing toward the curb. He waited. A gray-haired woman glared at him from the near back window. The girl was beside her, leaning forward to look at him, nodding to the cop in front. The cop opened a notebook on the steering wheel, wrote something, then laid the notebook on the seat beside him, set his patrolman’s cap on his bald white head, gave it a final adjustment, and got out of the cruiser. He walked around to the back door and held it open as the woman and the girl slid out. Each of these actions was executed with plodding deliberation, performed, Burke understood, as an unnerving show of method and assurance. He nodded as the cop came toward him. “Officer, what can I do for you?” “Identification, please.” Burke could have objected to this, but instead he shrugged, fetched his wallet from his jacket pocket, and handed over his driver’s license. The cop examined it, looked up at Burke, lowered his eyes to the license again. Burke saw that he was young, his face as bland as a baby’s, his baldness self-inflicted. “You’re not from here,” the cop said finally. Burke had a business card ready. He held it out, and after eying it warily the cop took it. “I’m a lawyer,” Burke said. “Here to take a deposition, in, let’s see . . .” He held up his watch. “Three minutes ago. Four-thirty. Right down there on Clinton Street.” He gestured vaguely. “So what’s the problem?” The gray-haired woman had come up close to Burke and was staring fiercely into his face. The girl lingered by the cruiser, pallid, hands dangling awkwardly at her sides. “We have a complaint,” the officer said. “Stalking,” he added uncertainly. “Stalking? Stalking who?” “You know who,” the woman said in a gravelly voice, never taking her eyes off him. She was handsome in a square-jawed way and deeply tanned. Ropy brown arms sticking out of her polo shirt, grass stains on the knees of her khakis. Burke could see her on the deck of a boat, coolly reefing sails in a blow. “The young lady there?” Burke asked. “Don’t play cute with me,” the woman said. “I’ve never seen anyone so terrified. The poor thing could hardly speak when she came to my door.” “Something sure scared her,” the cop said. “And what was my part in this?” Burke asked. He looked directly at the girl. She was hugging herself, sucking on her lower lip. She was younger than he’d thought; she was just a kid. He said, gently, “Did I do something to you?” She glanced at him, then averted her face. In the same voice, he said, “Did I say anything to you?” She stared at the ground by her feet. “Well?” the cop said, sharply. “What’d he do?” The girl didn’t answer. “Aren’t you the smooth one,” the woman said. “I do remember passing her a while back,” Burke said, addressing himself to the cop. “Maybe I surprised her—I guess I did. I was in kind of a hurry.” Then, speaking with absolute calm, Burke explained his business in New Delft, and the forty-five-minute break, and the route he had taken and the necessity of moving right along to get back on time, even if that meant overtaking other people on the sidewalk. All this could be confirmed at the law office—where they’d certainly be waiting for him. Burke invited the cop to come along and settle the matter forthwith. “I’m sorry if I surprised you,” he said in the girl’s direction. “I certainly didn’t mean to.” The cop looked at him, then at the girl. “Well?” he repeated. She turned her back to them, rested her elbows on the roof of the cruiser, and buried her face in her hands. The cop watched her for a moment. “Ah, geez,” he said. He gave the driver’s license another good look, handed it back with the card, and walked over to the girl. He murmured something, then took her by the elbow and began to help her into the back seat. The woman didn’t move. Burke felt her eyes on him as he replaced the license and the card in his wallet. Finally, he looked up and met her stare, so green and cold. He held it and did not blink. Then came a flash of bursting pain and his head snapped sideways so hard he felt a crack at the base of his neck. The shock scorched his eyes with hot tears, blinding him. His face burned. His tongue felt jammed back in his throat. “Liar,” she said. Until Burke heard her voice he didn’t understand that she’d struck him—he was that stunned. It gave him a kind of relief, as if without knowing it he’d been gripped by the fear of something worse. He heard the doors of the cruiser slam shut, one-two! He bent down with his hands on his knees, steadying himself, then straightened up and rubbed at his eyes. The cruiser was gone. The left side of his face still burned, hot even to the touch. A bearded man in a black suit walked past him down the hill, shooting Burke a glance and then locking his gaze straight ahead. Burke checked his watch. He was seven minutes late. He took a step, and another, and went on, amazed at how surely he walked, and how lightly. Down the street a squirrel jabbered right into his ear, or so it seemed, but when he glanced up he found it chattering on a limb high above him. Still, its voice was startling—raw, close. The light in the crowns of the trees had the quality of mist. Burke stopped outside the law office and gave his shoes a quick buff on the back of his pant legs. He mounted the steps and paused at the door. The blow was still warm on his cheek. Did it show? Would they ask about it? No matter—he would think of something. But he couldn’t help touching it again, tenderly, as if to cherish it, as he went inside to nail this witness down. 
Sundowners The Potts girl walked into the café preceded by her reputation so that everyone was obliged to stare. Even Stanton, who had been in Mamarrosa for less than a month, looked her over once more than was strictly necessary. Vasco, stuffed behind the grand Formica counter, served her with pineapple Sumol and unsmiling vigilance. The girl sat on the edge of the pool table, swinging her legs and examining her navel stud. Her hair fell forward, revealing an ugly brown hearing aid, and Stanton averted his eyes. Conversation spluttered and died, then was just as suddenly resurrected. The old men stood at the bar caressing their Macieiras and coughing up memories. In their black felt fedoras and black waistcoats, red handkerchiefs tied at the neck, they looked to Stanton like postcards from the past, as picturesque as the crooked Portuguese streets, the whitewashed houses, the doors and windows framed gaily in blue and yellow. A young mother scolded and slapped and kissed her child, the love exhaled as palpable as the smoke from her cigarette. “Always they are hitting,” Dieter said. Stanton looked away out the open door, at the sun riding high over the far ridged hills. It couldn’t be long until noon. Even eleven-thirty was respectable for beer. He waited for Vasco to look his way, but Vasco was keeping watch over the Potts girl. Stanton went up to the counter and nodded to the old men. “O Escritor,” they said, as if for the first time. It was a fine joke. “Yes, sir?” Vasco wiped the counter with commendable vigor, particularly for a man of his girth. Vasco was always wiping. It was a skill he had acquired during his legendary stint as a barman in Provincetown, Cape Cod, the United States of America. He had added his own innovation, though, by using the same unwashed rag for all purposes, shifting ash and dirt from surface to surface. Stanton ordered two Sagres and was grateful to the Potts girl and her soft white belly for Vasco’s preoccupation. “I was thinking,” Dieter said, stroking an eyebrow. “If you make the final payment in cash you can forget about the E.V.A., the tax. Save a lot of money.” He shrugged. “If you like, I will come with you now to the bank.” “But the fossa,” Stanton said. “It leaks. The work’s not finished.” The builder worried tobacco into a paper skin. His fingers were callused and nicotine-stained. “This is a—what do you say?—bad understanding.” He had a tall man’s slouch even when seated, and his chest, though broad, appeared concave. His hair, dark full curls, was cut into layers, falling almost to his shoulders and brushed to a sickening sheen. Without glancing over, Stanton thought of the Potts girl’s mousy strings. “The septic tank is an open system,” Dieter went on. “That is what we call this. Solid waste is kept inside. The water passes outside through a filter. No, it is a bad understanding.” “Misunderstanding,” Stanton said. “But it isn’t. I chose not to have that system, because it was more expensive. I didn’t have enough money for that.” Dieter produced a smile. “Lucky man,” he said. “You pay for closed but you get open. For you, this is very lucky.” “The damn thing leaks,” Stanton said. He knocked a fly away. “And there are no tiles on the bathroom floor.” Dieter shook his head. “The work is good. You don’t want to pay, but the work is good.” He lit his cigarette and sucked hard. He shook his head and sulked. Then he touched Stanton’s arm, changing tactics. “Look,” he said, indicating the men at the counter. “Brandy before noon. Impossible in this country to get anything done. In Germany, the workers—they work. Here . . .” He flicked his hair back with an oddly feminine gesture, using the back of his hand. “You see the problems. You suffer, my friend, and I suffer, also.” “So you’ll fix it?” Stanton said. “And the tiles. You know none of the internal doors are on?” “Bastards,” Dieter said. “Another drink?” “Why not?” The day was ruined, anyway. He would go back, tussle briefly with the computer, develop a fever, prescribe an afternoon of research, spend a couple of listless hours with his books, go for a walk to clear his head, and return in time for sundowners. Each stage would develop inevitably into the next, all with equal futility. There was a sudden commotion at the back of the room. Stanton turned and saw the Potts girl move across the café, something insolent in her walk. Behind the counter Vasco waved his short arms. “Ladra!” Vasco screamed. “Thief!” He lifted a hatch and squeezed out, the operation hampered by his size. The girl turned at the door, donned the monstrous pair of sunglasses she was holding, flicked a V sign, and disappeared. Vasco stood panting. His customers—those who had risen—sat down again, clicking their tongues. Vasco trembled his way to the revolving rack by the cigarette machine. He passed a hand over the postcards, comic books, chewing gum, toy guns, and sunglasses, perhaps to divine what else might be missing, perhaps to comfort his remaining stock. It was some time before he grew calm enough to serve beer again. “But he does not go to the police,” Dieter moaned. “In Germany, it would be . . . Ja, ja.” He broke off, as if even he had heard it too many times. “Do you know about that family? The Potts? They live one, two kilometres from your house. English neighbors.” Stanton had heard some things. “Not really.” Dieter rolled another cigarette, spilling tobacco over his jeans. “The father is, you know.” He tapped the side of his head. “Louco. When they came here, he had money. Maybe drug money, who knows? He asks me to build a swimming pool. They are living in a trailer but he wants a pool. So I bring the diggers and before the pool is finished he says now we build the house. I stop the pool and I start the house, but before the roof is done money has gone. The wife is like . . .” Dieter thought for a while. “What do you call this piece of material for cleaning the plates? A dishcloth, yes, dishcloth. There is a boy, about eleven, twelve,” he said quickly, eager to pass on to the main topic, “and, of course, this girl, Ruby. She has left the school, she has nothing to do but make trouble. There was a fight between her and the whores up at the brothel. Know where it is? By the G.N.R. The police look out for the girls. This fight—I heard it was really something—the whores said she ruined their business, giving it away for free.” He shifted his knees and bumped the table, then steadied it. “That is the story. Probably it isn’t true. But it is the story.” Stanton pictured the girl, her T-shirt cut off below the breasts, her fuck-you walk, the ludicrous stolen sunglasses encrusted with butterflies. Fifteen, maybe sixteen. Anemic skin and dimpled knees. Unattractive, uneducated, disabled. That hearing aid was prehistoric. “Poor bitch,” he said, and got up. He went outside to the pickup and pressed his hand against the door panel, where the sun glazed the red metal white. He drove out of the village, past the lines of orange trees that bordered the narrow pavements, past the water pump, where a bent old woman was filling plastic containers, past the small square with garish flower beds and a dark-green frog-plagued pond, and turned right after the traffic light, which was there not to control traffic (of which there was a dearth) but to raise a flag to the future. At home, he went straight to the computer, in the bedroom. All his furniture had ended up in that room, except for a couple of chairs and a stool, which were on the terrace. In his mind a correlation had grown between the emptiness of the house and the quality of his work, the sparseness of one guaranteeing the fullness of the other. He read over the last few pages on the screen, making deletions and additions and willing himself into the story. He stood up and sat back down. He set his jaw and willed himself submerged. It was hopeless. It was like deciding to commit suicide, then trying to drown with your face in the washbasin. He closed the computer and resolved to suffer no more interruptions to his mornings. Taking a book, he went to the terrace and looked out over the garden to the cork oaks beyond, the rich earth-red trunks where the bark had been harvested. He sat down and opened the book and was immediately distracted by a lizard flickering in and out of an empty flowerpot. He returned to the book, trudged through half a chapter, then hurled it down into the garden. It was possibly the worst book he had ever tried to read. Without locking the door to the house, a habit he had forced himself to break, he went down the steps from the terrace and turned out of the garden and continued along past the tender-leafed eucalyptus that said shush-shush and were still and stirred and quieted again. He walked his usual track into the cork-oak woods, which began where the eucalyptus left off, with no sense of excitement, except for the gin that he would pour when he got home. There were pines dotted among the oaks, and he picked up a cone, carried it for a while, then let it drop. The trees spread out, giving way now and then to grass and sheep. The shepherd wore a sheepskin over his shirt, a hole cut for his head and a string tied around the waist to hold it in place. Stanton waved. All day—the man spent all day watching sheep. The thinness of his own endeavor was shaming. In a clearing where some old trees had been felled and the spring flowers were intense, Stanton paused. There were anemones here, cistus and soapwort and wild geranium. The gorse spurted yellow over the tree stumps. “You’re English,” the boy said. Stanton had not noticed him there. “Hello, compatriot,” he said. The boy grew unsure. He beheaded flowers with his stick. “We’re both English,” Stanton clarified. “Watch this,” the boy said, and threw the stick. It arced high and landed a distance off in the scrub. “Good throw.” “Yeah,” the boy said. “Thanks.” He smiled and rubbed a hand over his head, which was almost shaved, the scalp showing pinkly through. Lice, Stanton thought. A sneeze of freckles covered the bridge of the boy’s nose and strayed to his cheeks. It was a nice face, open and willing. “You write books,” the boy said. “I like your truck.” “I’m heading back,” Stanton said. “Me, too.” They walked together in the rutted track. The boy stamped his feet in the grass to make the crickets jump. His shoes looked as if they might not last the journey home. “What’s your name?” Stanton asked. “Jay,” the boy said. “Jay Potts. We used to have a truck like yours.” “What happened?” The boy raised his thin arms. “Crashed it.” “Dad or Mum?” “Me.” He left a long pause, and when Stanton did not fill it he went on. “I don’t drive on the main roads. Only, you know, on tracks like this, round our house or in the field. Don’t know what happened, really. All I know is it ended up smashed on a fig tree, and I had to have one of those neck things for weeks.” Stanton laughed. “What you driving these days, then?” “Well, me dad had a tractor and he used to let me drive that sometimes, but now he’s turned it over in the ditch and we can’t get it out. And we’ve got the Renault 4, but I don’t drive that. Don’t ask me why.” “Why?” Stanton said. “I don’t know,” Jay said. “Don’t ask me.” An owl flew across the trees, dipping down and skimming the path. “He’s up early,” Stanton said. He thought about having orange juice with his evening gin, getting some Vitamin C. They came up to the shepherd, and Stanton wished him a boa noite and the boy spoke Portuguese, his accent so thick that Stanton couldn’t understand him. Then they went up the hill toward the house, the eucalyptus coming into view, watery now in the lowering light. The evening lay in prospect, and Stanton began to sag. “We don’t have to keep talking,” the boy said. “I’ll just walk with you.” A pair of rangy cypress trees marked the entrance to the property. “Funeral trees,” Dieter had called them, when he came to give his estimate. They flanked every cemetery, growing tall and fat on the underground deposits. At the garden wall, Jay stood with his hands on his hips. He stared at the ground and kicked his heels in the dust. “Well,” Stanton said. Jay looked away as if a difficult issue had been raised. “I might have some Coke in the fridge.” They drank on the terrace and watched the sun slide down the sky. Stanton was surprised to find himself glad of the boy’s presence, as if there were something unpleasant he was meant to be doing that he could now put off for a while longer. Jay sipped his drink, making it last. His bare arms were thin but sinewy, blueprinted for muscle. He didn’t speak, barely moved, hoping perhaps to be forgotten. Nothing changed, but everything began to look different. A feeling unfolded in Stanton: the boy was in the way. Stanton was just about to say something when Jay jumped up. “Best be off,” he said. On the steps he turned. “I like your truck.” “You can ride in it one day,” Stanton said. “But I’m driving.” He opened a bottle of vinho verde and went to the bedroom. Sitting on the edge of the bed, he drank and watched the shadows on the wall. He had been twenty-eight when his first novel was published. If a man is to have success, he thought, it is better for it to come later in life. Not so late that he has too little time to appreciate it. But not so soon that he has too little experience to appreciate it. It was not the first time he had thought this, but it was the first time that day, and that, he considered, was a sort of progress. Stanton worked. Because he had no curtains, he woke with the sun and, instead of pulling the sheets up over his head, he rose and went to the computer. The days lengthened. Soon, it seemed that he had hardly got to bed before the sun came calling. Still, he rose and would not be beaten. In the afternoons, he reviewed what he had written and held despair at bay with savage cuts and a bottle of the local brandy. Dieter learned to stay away until after five. Sometimes they drank on the terrace; more often they went to the village. Dieter found a woman. Dutch, big-boned, with a disappointed face. “It is ridiculous,” she would say, “these Portuguese,” tapping two fingers on the table, Dieter nodding along. The Potts girl haunted the village. She was always on her own. Even when she was with people, she was by herself. Stanton saw her in the bar next to the Casa do Povo, sitting on a table, feet on a chair, pretending not to notice the local lads looking up her skirt. She wore tie-dyed skirts with tasselled fringes wrapped low on her darkening belly, a charm bracelet on each wrist, and always the sunglasses. She never looked too clean. Stanton saw her in the pharmacy, buying Band-Aids, and when he heard her speak it took him a few seconds to understand that it was not just her accent that thickened the words. She turned around and stepped right up to him. She smelled of earth. The sunglasses hid her eyes. There was a little mole right beneath her nose. She spoke to him in English. “You seen enough now?” Congested vowels and macerated diction. She must lip-read, Stanton thought. “Yes,” he said, without making a sound. For a while, Jay seemed to live in the woods. Stanton had to walk the other way if he wanted to be alone. Then school finished for the summer, and the boy started dropping in at the house. “I’m working,” Stanton said. “I know,” Jay said. “I’ll just be in the garden.” Stanton did not want him in the garden. “I’ll do some work for you,” Jay said. “Clear some weeds or something.” They looked down into the garden, the small orchard of lemons, oranges, and peaches choked with brambles, the oleander collapsing under its own weight, the rest of the ground rubbed red and brown in the heat. Sometimes Jay hung around climbing the fruit trees or bouncing a ball on the terrace. Other days, Stanton sat with him and talked about football or Spider-Man. “When I grow up,” Jay said with doomed earnestness, “I want to work with animals.” “Vet?” Stanton said, being unkind. “No,” said Jay. “I don’t think I’ll get all them exams.” Stanton was sorry. “Ah, well. There’s lots of ways of working with animals. I bet you’re good with animals.” “I’ve got a puppy. Do you want to come and see it? I take the goats out sometimes, you know, graze them, and I feed the pigs. Me mum feeds the chickens. Don’t ask me why.” “Why?” said Stanton. “I don’t know,” Jay said, creasing his freckled face. “Don’t ask me.” He always left before Stanton told him it was time to go, as if he could sense the clouds gathering. And he said little about his family. It must have been pleasant, Stanton guessed, to take a break from being the Potts boy. The mother came looking for him one day. Stanton watched the Renault 4 splutter over the gravel and knew it would be her. “I’m Chrissie,” she said. “Jay’s mum.” “Yes. Harry Stanton.” They stood there. Chrissie held her head to one side as if listening for an announcement. She was so thin she seemed to sway slightly on her feet. “He’s not here, is he?” she said at length. “No,” Stanton said. Chrissie perched on the stool on the terrace. There was a light sheen of sweat on her upper lip and in the cleft between her breasts, her shirt unbuttoned almost below the bra. “He’s been bothering you. I’ve spoken to him about it.” She was, Stanton realized, taking pains with her speech. Talking posh to the writer. “Not at all. Drink?” When he came back with the beers, Chrissie was scratching her forearms. They were pitted with scars and traversed with red and purple weals. She tugged her sleeves down. “He’s not such a bad kid. But he’s got no discipline. I try to tell him. But does he listen?” She sniffed to indicate that he did not. “Did he tell you he’s being kept back a year at school?” “Oh . . . well,” Stanton said. “He loves the outdoors. And animals.” It occurred to him that if you fed her up and put her in decent clothes she would not be bad-looking. Her mouth was fashionably wide and her cheekbones high. She was perhaps ten years younger than he, mid-thirties. In another setting, with another attitude, she could have been attractive: fey and otherworldly, rather than blown about. What was it that Dieter had called her? A dishcloth. Not the right word, but not a bad try. “You don’t want to end up like your sister, I tell him, but what good does it do?” “Ruby, isn’t it?” Those arms, though. What would you do with them? “Ruby,” Chrissie said. “You know.” “She’ll grow out of it,” he said. How banal he’d become. Chrissie looked at him sharply, then lapsed into self-pity. “I’ve had a hell of a time with her.” “It’s difficult.” Stanton was wondering now how to get rid of the woman. “These days, it’s difficult.” “You got kids, Harry?” “No. No kids.” “Just as well,” she said. “You being a writer,” she added. “Need your peace and quiet, I expect.” “Actually—” “I thought it would be better down here. It has been better,” she improvised, “in some ways. Have you met my husband?” “Ah, not yet,” Stanton said. There was a fly crawling down her neckline and onto the curve of her breast. Four months since he’d had sex. There was nothing you could do with those arms. “He don’t . . . he doesn’t go out much. You’ll have to pay a visit. You know where we are.” He could have walked her to her car then. Instead, he went to get another beer and let her talk. It could have been the sweat gathering in the hollow of her neck. But it was not that. He wanted something from her and it was not sex but something baser. Some day, he knew, he would write about this place. The next time she appeared at his door, it was morning and she was not interesting. “I’m interrupting,” she said, miserable, when he poked his head out. “He’s not here,” he told her. She swayed and rubbed her arms and gave off such a general air of hopelessness that Stanton wanted to kick her. “If you see him,” she said, and ran down the stairs to her car. In the evenings, Vasco produced white paper tablecloths and three dishes of the day, which were always piri-piri chicken, pork with clams, and a grilled fish with boiled potatoes. “Mr. Stanton,” he said, “what do you think of this war in Iraq? Everyone here is against it, apart from the government, of course.” He handed out the menus. “Terrible business,” Stanton said, pretending to study the items. “Exactly!” Vasco cried. “Exactly. Terrible business, but has to be done. Everyone is saying to me, ‘Oh, they make the empire, these Americans.’ And I tell them, ‘Shut up, what do you know?’ Of course they make the empire. United States of America will not be threatened. We had a big empire, too.” Vasco turned purple and began to wheeze. It dawned on Stanton that he was laughing. “Five hundred years ago.” Dieter and his Dutch woman had chicken and Stanton had a fish that watched him as he ate it. “I heard,” Dieter said, “that Ruby is pregnant.” The Dutch woman said, “Who is the father? She probably doesn’t know.” She snorted and tapped the table. An image entered Stanton’s mind unbidden: the Dutch woman astride Dieter, tensing her buttocks, shaking her breasts, snorting. The couple spoke briefly together in German. He touched her knee and she stroked his hair, which Stanton found repulsive. “I think,” Stanton said, “that Ruby has an addict for a mother.” “Chrissie? You mean her arms, ja?” Dieter unfolded his legs and stretched out. His crotch bulged. “Needle marks.” Dieter shrugged. “Maybe. I don’t think so.” “What, then?” “Fleas.” He smiled. “Go to the house. Then you see what I mean.” “But the boy doesn’t have them,” Stanton said. “Or the girl.” “I’ll ask you—do you get mosquito bites?” Stanton said that he didn’t, not many. “Me, they leave alone also. But some people,” Dieter raised his beer, “they fall in love with. What I mean is, some people just have bad luck.” The Dutch woman pursed her lips. “There is a reason for everything,” she said with false humility. “Even if we do not know it. You say bad luck. Better perhaps to say bad Karma.” On Sunday, he rose early, as usual, but decided to rest. He lay all morning on the kitchen floor, where it was coolest, reading and dozing. In his dream, a dog with orange eyes crept into his bed and closed its jaws around the back of his neck. He woke with pain shooting from his shoulder down his right arm and was filled with remorse for the wasted day. Rubbing his arm, he went to the sink and accused his reflection of many things. He brushed his teeth, drank a beer, and brushed his teeth again. Then he drove to the village, parked outside Vasco’s place, and walked up the narrow streets toward the church. Two cars passed him, Stanton flattening himself against the walls to let them through. When he got to the marketplace, a patch of rough ground bisected by the steeple’s shadow, people were still setting up. It was billed as a festa, a fête, but in England it would have been called a car-boot sale. Some people had tables; others put their wares on a blanket or directly on the ground. An old man sold wood carvings. Another sold herbs grown in sawed-off plastic bottles. The local crafts coöperative displayed rugs and hand-painted tiles. There were piles of secondhand books and comics, glowing jars of honey, and glinting bottles of olive oil. A woman with a gold brooch and silver sandals sat behind her scales weighing out bread and cakes. There were families who had cleared out all their junk and spilled it in front of their cars: a vase, a radiator, old shoes, wooden bowls, lidless teapots, broken furniture, mysterious plastic objects of indeterminate use. These families wandered the market acquiring other, equally useless possessions with which to replace those that they sold. Stanton stopped to watch oranges being squeezed on an old sewing machine that had been converted into a bizarre juicing contraption. “Now, why is that so fucking beautiful?” The man who had spoken sniffed loudly. Out of the corner of his eye, Stanton saw that the sniff had come too late. A long string of snot fell from the man’s nose to the ground. The man turned and offered his hand. “Michael Potts. Everyone calls me China. Call me whatever you like. Who said that thing about a name being like a torch?” “I’m afraid I don’t know,” Stanton said, shaking hands. The man, Potts, wore the filthiest pair of jeans he had ever seen. “Might have been me. Got a spot over there, mate. Come and see us.” Stanton wanted to get back to Vasco’s, but Jay got to him first. “Bought anything?” Stanton shook his head. “I got this.” Jay held up a little glass ball filled with colored water. “You hang it on a string and it keeps the flies away.” “Oh,” Stanton said. “How does it work?” “Dunno. Probably doesn’t. Look who I found.” Chrissie sat on the open boot of the Renault 4. On a blanket at her feet she had arranged a few pans with broken handles and some rusting agricultural equipment. Her skirt looked like one of Ruby’s, swirling patterns in purple and pink. She had better legs than Ruby. “Don’t be a pest, Jay.” Stanton picked up a tool, a clipper or shears of some kind with a semicircular aperture. “What’s this for?” “Bullock castrator,” Chrissie said. “China wants to ask you something.” China came up with a bag of cakes. He gave it to Jay. “Make yourself sick now, carn’ ya?” He had red eyes and blasted cheeks. There was something about the way he stood that made Stanton think he had once carried muscle, though that time had long since passed. Another burned-out case. “Listen, mate. I need a favor. Need to borrow that lovely truck of yours.” There was no way he was going to the Potts house. Stanton sat on the terrace nursing a gin-and-orange and looking at his truck. He didn’t mind doing anyone a favor. But he could not get involved. Once he went over there, they would start to assume. A pair of jays danced over the hood and went off squabbling into the woods. He had come to Portugal to work. He had come to be alone. They cared nothing for that, and he—the heat of indignation rising now—did not care to be involved. He drove over around five o’clock, a bottle of Macieira on the passenger seat. The house was at the end of a track that took senseless sharp turns, twisting first one way, then the other. There was bamboo, and a weeping willow and a false-pepper tree by the first outbuilding. The light was gold through the corks on the hillside. This place could be beautiful. Stanton passed the wrecked truck. The boy had been lucky. There were several other cars there, carcasses really, brambles growing out of their ribs. He stopped a short distance from the house. The smell was terrible. Beyond the house was a series of trailers and some more outbuildings. A calf wandered up from behind the van and poked its head through the window. It made a tragic noise. China came out of the house. Stanton climbed down and walked through a cow pie. “Shit.” “Mind yourself.” China led him through the manure. “There she is,” China said, bending into the trench. “Apple of my eye, she was. Cracker.” The air was thick with the smell. Stanton could hardly breathe. “I’ve brought a rope,” he said, and went back to the truck, gagging. The rest of the family gathered. “Want to hold him?” Jay asked, offering his puppy. “Knew you’d like him.” “Trust you to get in the way.” Chrissie had barrettes in her hair. Lipstick—a bad color, too orange. Ruby sat on an old crate holding her nose. “Jay,” China bellowed. “Get out of the fucking way.” The cow had fallen into the trench behind the house and broken its back. China had dug the trench, he explained, because the house was getting damp. “Drainage, like,” he said. The plaster had come away from the house’s outside wall, exposing the clay bricks beneath. Stanton wondered about the foundations. “Fucking council,” China said. “They’re supposed to come and take it away. You can’t leave a fucking dead cow like that. Fucking health hazard.” “How long has she been there?” Even supposing the truck could take the weight and pull the cow out, what then? Was he supposed to take it away with him? Tow it back to his house? Jay stood at Stanton’s elbow, away from his father. “Five days. No, six. Took her a day to die.” “Jay,” his mother said in a warning tone, unable to specify a crime. “Right, that should do it,” China said, patting the rope where he had tied it around the cow’s neck. “Better back the truck a bit closer.” Stanton looked in the rearview mirror as he started the engine. The Potts family was lined up at the edge of the trench, bathed in syrupy light. Sadness, like a rolling fog, closed in on him. I have to stay away from them, he thought. China banged on the side of the truck. “Mate,” he shouted, as if proposing a pub crawl. “Let’s go.” Stanton put the engine into first and let the truck creep forward until he felt the resistance. “Let’s go. Go!” China called. Stanton moved into second and pressed gently on the accelerator. The truck made a sudden lurch. “Good fucking God!” China yelled. Chrissie covered her face with her hands. Ruby moved forward with a curious expression, as if smiling through a great amount of pain. “Christ,” Stanton said when he saw what had happened. “Cool,” Jay said. “Look at all the maggots.” China began to laugh. He bent double and held his knees and laughed until he had a coughing fit. The cow’s head lay on the ground with the rope around its neck, spilling maggots and a fat black tongue. “They went flying,” Jay said. “Maggot bomb. You should’ve seen it.” Ruby crouched over the head. She seemed to be speaking to it. Little rolls of fat splayed out under her knees. Abruptly she got up and walked away. Chrissie vomited into the trench. She wiped the sides of her mouth with the back of her hand, tugged her skirt down. “I don’t know about anyone else,” she said, patting her hair like a hostess whose guests have arrived a little early, “but I could use a drink.” They sat inside on high-backed leather-padded chairs and drank Stanton’s Macieira. Ruby disappeared and Jay played on the floor with the puppy. China smoked a joint and spread himself across his seat like a man preparing to hold court. “I’ll tell you something,” he said, and tapped ash on the floor. “People look at me and they think”—he made a humming noise—“they think, What a washout. What a sad fucking sack.” He held up a hand as if to stay protests. “I know that. I ain’t stupid. But I’ll tell you something for free. All the things I wanted to do, I gone and done ’em. I never said to meself, ‘Hang on, China, what’s Auntie Maude going to say?’ Fuck Auntie Maude, if you’ll pardon the expression.” He lifted the puppy on the end of his foot and tossed it gently back toward his son. “All right, some of the things I done are not that clever. Drugs are not clever. But I done ’em because I wanted to, my choice, like. Cleaned me act up now, of course.” He leaned across and poured another drink. Chrissie kicked off her sandal and massaged her foot. Her eyes met Stanton’s for a moment, then they both looked away. “ ‘What does he want all them goats for?’ ” China went on. “That’s what people say. Forty goats I got. You’ll see ’em later. They know their way home and Jay’ll go and get them if they don’t. Won’t you, Jay? I had the money, so I got ’em. People don’t like that. You see—” He paused to toke hard and keep the smoke held in. Stanton thought, This is his favorite speech and it has to be savored. China continued, “If you have a desire, act on it—my personal philosophy of life. How many people do you see what are happy, truly happy?” Stanton showed his palms. “No, mate. You don’t. You don’t see ’em because they’re gravediggers. Burying their desires, the whole fucking lot. So fuck Auntie Maude, I say. Fuck the village. Fuck the lot. My personal philosophy. That dog’s just pissed on the floor, Chrissie.” “Jay,” Chrissie said. “Run and get the goats, Jay,” China said. “I’m going to show our guest around.” There was a pig in the first trailer. A little sink in there and a folding table. The windows had curtains, too, a sophistication the house lacked. The pig was expecting, China explained. He’d had to take her away from her mate, give her a little privacy now. The two other trailers were entirely derelict, but the way China saw it they’d be restored and back on the road one day. Stanton was beginning to itch. He thought of Chrissie’s arms. Three sheep stood uncertainly at the edge of a makeshift wooden pen, as if they had forgotten what they were supposed to be doing. The swimming pool had become a landfill, the refuse piled almost to the top. There were two more pigs chained to a pole outside a falling-down outbuilding, performing a porcine Morris dance. “That’s it,” China said. “The chicken house is up the other end, but you don’t need to see that.” “Nice place,” Stanton said. “It’s got . . .” “Potential,” China said. “Hear that? Jay’s back with the goats.” They walked back in time to see Jay run down the slope and through the herd, flapping his arms and grinning. Ruby was there, wearing a cleanish dress and the butterfly sunglasses, though it was nearly dusk. Stanton faced her directly, the others at his back. He was close enough to smell her, but for the stink from the cow and the shit. Her tongue flickered out and touched the mole above her lip. “Are you going somewhere?” Stanton said, silently. She watched his lips. “Yes,” she said in her ugly nasal voice. “I’m going.” Chrissie came outside. “One of these days,” she said, petulant, “she’ll get herself killed.” She had a bucket of chicken feed in her hand. “Want to come with me?” Chrissie gestured vaguely at China and Jay moving among the goats, meaning they were occupied. He walked behind her, watching the way her backside moved beneath the thin fabric of her skirt, the ridges rising and falling on her calves, the red rings of bites around her ankles. His throat began to ache. They passed around the willow to the farthest outbuilding. The sky was turning red. She put the bucket down and took a step back, kicking it over. He kissed her without taking her in his arms. She did not seem surprised. She did not attempt to hold him, but her tongue was active, forceful. Brandy and a sharp tang of vomit. “Over there,” he said, and went up to the wall. He turned her around and lifted her skirt and made short work of it. He reached forward briefly and circled her wrists with his hands, the scabs pressed into his palms. She did not cry out or move her hips or even deepen her breath. “Thank you,” he said, and zipped up his trousers. Behind them, the chickens pecked the ground. When he went to the truck and untied the rope, the calf stood over the severed head and cried. Jay came two days later. It was evening already, but Stanton was still writing. “I’m getting behind,” he said. “Tell you what, give me a few days—I’ll come over and see you.” “Don’t matter,” Jay said, turning. He wore a Manchester United top. It hung almost to his knees. Stanton followed him out. “You understand, right?” “Don’t matter.” “It’s not that I don’t want you to come.” Jay stopped. Without turning, he said, “Yes, it is.” Stanton suppressed a sigh. How had he ended up looking after this boy? “Listen, the reason I came out here . . . Look at me. Jay. Look.” But the boy would not. Stanton felt the stiffness in his neck. Too many hours in front of the screen. “Actually,” he said, “I think I could use a break. How about a Coke?” “Don’t matter,” the boy said. “Will you stop saying that? Stop being a baby and get yourself a drink. It’s doesn’t, anyway. And it does.” They sat on the terrace steps, not speaking. Jay pulled a long string of gum out of his mouth, wrapped it around a finger, then sucked it back for another chew. He crouched low to watch ants. He turned over a beetle that had got stuck on its back. “How’s the puppy?” Stanton asked. “He ran away.” Jay scratched in the dust with a twig. “He might come back.” “No,” Jay said. “They never do.” Stanton searched for something wise or comforting to say. “Got any spare gum?” he asked. “No. Tina’s having babies soon. She’s the pig.” “Great.” He wondered if Dieter had been right about Ruby’s being pregnant, and if Jay knew. “Jay, don’t you have any friends around here? Your own age, I mean.” “At school,” Jay said. “Only see them at school, really. Thought you said it’s ‘doesn’t,’ anyway.” “What I said . . . never mind.” Jay stood up. “That’s me mum’s car.” Chrissie had on a floppy straw hat and a long skirt. She’s dressed up, Stanton thought. “I’ve told you about bothering Harry.” “I invited him.” “Watch this, Mum.” Jay ran up to the terrace. “I can walk on my hands now. Been practicing.” “Don’t show off, Jay,” Chrissie said. “Look, Mum. See this?” “All right, Jay. We’ve all seen it.” “Very good,” Stanton said. “Well done.” “Your dad wants you,” Chrissie said. “He needs some help.” “With what?” “How should I know?” Chrissie said, whining. “You best get going.” Jay rubbed his head. “How about you?” “How about me? You can walk back. I’m on my way to the shops.” “How about you?” Jay said. “Kids!” She tried a laugh. “I’ll be going in a minute. I’m just having a word with Harry first.” Jay stayed where he was. Stanton smiled and rocked on his heels. Someone had told him once that the children of alcoholics become adept at sensing mood swings, reading body language. “I’ll wait for you at the car,” Jay said. “You can give me a lift back to the road.” Chrissie tipped her head to one side. “I could kill him,” she said. “So,” Stanton said. “You’re going shopping.” Chrissie rubbed her arms. “You bastard,” she said softly, getting up. A forest fire burned for three days on the hills that hid the sea. A firefighter was hurt, only slightly. The newspaper reported sixty-seven dead in the heat wave. Stanton kept a bottle of water on his desk and it grew warm before he had finished a page. Eventually, he came to a lull. He went out and bought a soccer ball for Jay, a vase for Chrissie, and a bottle of cachaça and a bag of limes to make caipirinhas. He picked up a pair of sunglasses with diamanté studs but put them back again. “Mate,” said China, who had come out of the house at the sound of the truck, “let’s have a fucking drink.” He had thought of it as a visit to see Jay, but he realized now that it wasn’t. “Been out all day with the goats,” China said. “Something special, like. People don’t realize.” Chrissie took the vase without a word. Jay whooped at the sight of the ball, which made Stanton feel bad. Ruby, thankfully, was out. He explained how to make the caipirinhas with lime juice and sugar and plenty of ice, and Chrissie went to the kitchen. She set doilies on the tray, one under each glass. “Blinding,” China said. “Jay, take that fucking ball outside.” “What do you like about them?” Stanton asked. “The goats.” He watched China spread out against his chair, the slight tremor in his hand as he brought the glass to his lips. It was China he had come for; some atavistic instinct that China appealed to, a desire to see the demons at work. “Goats,” China said, his voice dragging like a broken exhaust. “You look at ’em long enough, you see the universe. Good and evil, love and war, God and the Devil. Know what I mean?” “For God’s sake,” Chrissie said. “Shut up,” China said, not quite shouting. “Who asked you? Where’s my lighter? There’s one billy . . .” He leaned forward so that Stanton could see the scarlet rims of his eyes. “He don’t know when to stop. He’s so horny I daren’t turn my back on him.” He slapped his thigh and hooted. “We think we’re that much better than animals, but I’ll tell you something for free—you watch ’em long enough you learn a lot. A goat with the horn is like a man with a mission. Made by the same Creator to the same design. Yes, you certainly learn a lot.” He lit a joint and passed it to Stanton. Stanton took a drag and managed not to cough. He passed it to Chrissie and their fingers brushed together. China got out of his chair. He looked around, picked up a filthy T-shirt, and blew his nose on it. “I’m going to check on Tina. She’s a little darling, she is.” At the doorway, he looked over his shoulder. “Listen, mate, my home is your home. Anything you want, you take it.” Stanton followed Chrissie into the kitchen. The roof was plastic sheeting over untreated wood beams. There was a puddle of something—it had not rained for weeks—in the middle of the floor. Chrissie put more ice in a plastic bag and smashed it with a hammer. Stanton slipped his arm around from behind and held her wrist. He felt her grip tighten on the hammer before she let it drop. It was over quickly and this time they did not kiss. When they went back to the sitting room, Ruby was there, hugging her knees to her chest. He was drinking in the bar next door to the Casa do Povo and thinking that it had been a long time since he had driven home not drunk when he noticed her. He ordered a pineapple Sumol and took it over to her table. She had a pink satin handbag with a stain on it and a beaded scarf, which she had placed on the chair opposite, as if reserving the space. Stanton moved her things and sat down. “Do you mind?” she said, her voice high. “Not at all,” Stanton said. She turned her head and chewed her lip and then flashed back at him. “If you’re going to sit there, I’ll have a beer.” “I’d be delighted to buy you one,” he said, “when you’re eighteen.” “Ha-ha, very funny, my name’s Bugs Bunny.” “Good one,” Stanton said. “Look, I’ll move when your boyfriend gets here. You are meeting your boyfriend, aren’t you?” He glanced at her stomach, but there was nothing he could tell from that. Ruby looked out the window. She reached up and tucked her hair behind her ears. “I know what you’re doing,” she said. “Deaf doesn’t mean stupid.” “I know,” Stanton said, speaking the words aloud this time. “I’m sorry.” The shame seemed to spread from his anus, which contracted and released and contracted again. “I’m sorry,” he said again. She kept her hearing aid turned to him like a steady reproach. “I’ll buy you that beer if you like.” Nothing. In the pit of his stomach, there was a deep absence. He was sorry for her, and he was sorry for himself. “Not much to do, is there, in the village? Not at your age.” A light down spread out from the hairline at her ear to the baby fat along her jaw. The mole beneath her nose looked ticklish, like a crumb sticking there. Have it your way, Stanton thought, shaking it all off. She heard him standing up or saw it out of the corner of her eye. “You can always find something,” she said, “if you try hard enough.” “I expect so.” He sat down again and wished that he had moved faster. “Party in Milfontes tonight. Should be good.” She did the thing with the tip of her tongue reaching up to the mole. China came through the door as if he meant to take it off its hinges. He was drunker than usual. His jeans looked as if they would stand on their own. “Mate,” he bellowed. “Let’s have a fucking drink.” He noticed his daughter. “Get yourself home now. It’s late.” “It’s not,” Ruby said. “And don’t fucking shout. Showing me up as per usual.” China leaned over the table, hulking his shoulders forward. “Showing you up? Showing you up? You’ve shown yourself up. A long fucking time ago, my girl.” He sat back, the fight gone out of him. “Ah, well, fuck it. Do what you like.” “I will,” Ruby said. She gathered her bag and scarf and went out, everybody watching the swing of her hips. “I don’t mind telling you,” China said, when he had lined up the brandies and the beers, “I don’t mind telling you that in the old days I’d have knocked her for six. Not my style anymore.” He lifted his drink and spilled a little down his chin. “You got to let things be.” Stanton was tired. “Your philosophy of life,” he said. “That’s right,” China said. It was just about possible to make out the whites of his eyes beneath the web of red veins. “When I was big on control, I was really big on control, know what I mean, and I controlled a patch of Yarmouth, ran nearly over to fucking Cromer, know what I mean, and what I said”—he slammed his glass on the table—“went.” My muse, Stanton thought, stabbed through with resentment. “What brought you here, then?” China smiled, loose-lipped, slack-jawed. “Mate,” he said slowly, as if to comfort a dying man. “Mate. What brought any of us? On the run, ain’t we? On the fucking run.” He had taken the truck to the garage to get the clutch looked at. When he got back, Chrissie was waiting for him. “I’ll have to start locking the door,” he said. She had her arms wrapped around her chest, her hip bones were a pair of razor shells, and her pubic hair was surprisingly dark. “I thought we should. At least once. You know, with our clothes off.” “Chrissie,” he said, unbuckling, “do you think Ruby saw us?” She turned on her stomach and spoke into the pillow so that he could not catch the words. He ran his palm down the ridge of her spine and onto the shallow slope of her buttocks. She put her arms behind her back, wrists together. There was a spot of blood on the sheets from her forearm. “Turn over,” he said. She obeyed him, but when he looked into her face there was nothing he could read, except a kind of helpless defiance. “I don’t care,” Chrissie said. “Do you think she saw us?” “I can’t help it,” she said, and pulled his head toward her. She came nearly every day. When she was not there, he sat on the terrace spitting olive pits into an old can or shuffling a deck of cards, or he chopped wood and stacked it in the shed for the winter months, which were not far off. He did no writing. They got into a rhythm. When he heard her car, he went to the bedroom and lit candles, though the flames disappeared in the sunlight. He liked the way she dozed on her side with her hands between her knees. He liked the way she shivered when he ran his hand down her back. She always sighed as she took off her bra. “What’s the point of these?” she said, blowing out one of the candles. “It’s romantic,” he said. “You’re supposed to like it.” Whatever pleasure she took she kept largely to herself. “Run away with me,” he said. She was making the bed. “I’ve got to get going.” “Venice,” he said, catching her around the waist. “Monte Carlo. Rio.” “I’ve lost my hair clip,” she said. “Did you see me put it down?” He asked about Ruby. “She was,” Chrissie said. “But she isn’t now. Miscarriage.” “I’m sorry,” Stanton said. “Don’t be.” She scratched her arms until they bled. “What are you doing?” he said. “What are you doing?” Jay came only once when she was there. Stanton pulled on his trousers and went to the door. “Come back in a couple of hours, can you?” The car, he thought. Jesus. “Your mum came round. She’s in the woods. Thought she might find you there.” “Tina,” Jay said. He put his hand up to shield his eyes as he looked out toward the oaks. “She had her litter?” “Yeah,” Jay said. “She’s ate ’em, though.” For a moment he looked solemn and then he began to giggle. “They’d have been ate in the end, anyway. That’s what me dad says.” Chrissie was dressed and sitting at his desk, looking at his computer. “English,” she said, “was my best subject at school.” By September, they had run out of steam, got to the end of each other. They both knew it. Still, he had to say something, and it would be a delicate business. He sat on the steps, shuffling cards and waiting. When she got out of the car, she checked her reflection in the wing mirror. She carried a basket of eggs. There was a cold rinse in his chest that could have been mistaken for fear. “Chrissie,” he said, “I need to bury myself for a while.” She set down the basket. “They’ve started laying in that old Citroën.” He took her hand. “Do you see what I’m saying?” “For some reason,” she said, “we’re getting a lot of double-yolkers.” She made it easy, really. He was grateful. “You’ve got your work, Harry,” she told him. “Need your peace and quiet. And I’ve got my husband.” He kissed her on the nose. “I’ll still see you,” he told her. “We’ll have coffee.” “I don’t drink coffee,” she said. “Tea, then,” he said, “or a beer.” Later, he met Dieter at the café and attempted a discreet celebration. “A bottle of red—the best you have.” Vasco wiped the table and tucked his filthy rag into his belt. “You would like something special? Expensive, yes?” “O.K.,” Stanton said. “O.K.,” Vasco wheezed. “I charge you more.” Dieter’s subject was Portuguese bureaucracy, an old favorite. “All these obstacles they put in your way. They do not really want you to work.” Stanton nodded. The work on his own house would never be completed. “In Germany, they will be fired. The officials are there to help you, and if they do not they will be fired. Pure and simple.” “Pure and simple,” Stanton said. “Why don’t you go back to Germany? Seems everything would be easier.” Dieter sat up and clutched the arms of his chair. “Germany?” he said. “If I never see that country again so long as I live, so much the better for me. Germany? No. Never.” Vasco came with a bottle of the usual. “Very expensive, this. Very good wine for celebrating. Wait, I bring a glass and make a toast with you. . . . So, what do we toast?” “Long life,” Dieter said, sounding pained. “Life and liberty,” Stanton said, raising a glass. Ruby looked like a waxwork in the headlights. She stood still when he pulled over and she did not move when he opened the door. “Give you a ride home,” he called. “Come on, get in.” She got in without a word. She had the sunglasses in her hand. “Good night?” he asked. She leaned her head against the window. Finally she said, “I’m really, really tired.” A little way along the track that led down to the Potts house, she said, “Let me out now. If Dad hears, he’ll come looking.” Stanton stopped the car and cut the engine. Playing it back later—in bed, entombed in the noise of cicadas—he could not recall who had made the first move. She smelled of freshly dug earth and her skin was all goose bumps, and when she came she bit his ear until he cried out and pinched her hard to make her let him go. He spent two nights at his desk and on the third day slept in his chair and woke with his head lolled back, a demon pain laced at the neck and one hand on the keyboard. He heard Chrissie’s car and the soft click of her sandals on the steps. He heard the sigh of the door handle and the resistance of the lock. Ruby came the next day and knocked on the door, then the window, and then circled to the back and stood outside the bedroom. He crouched in the bathroom next to the stack of tiles that would never be laid and noticed for the first time the mesh of fine lines in the clear glaze. He watched her leave from the sitting-room window and when she got to the cypress trees she looked back and raised one finger in the air. The rain came and turned the world to mud. Stanton took his boots off at the door, but still the mud insinuated itself into the house. If it carried on this way, he would be forced to clean the place. The oranges began to drop, but they could not, Stanton discovered, be eaten. The peach trees in the little orchard turned out to be rotten. They sagged beneath the weight of water and split and rested their branches on the ground. At dawn—sometimes he was rising, sometimes going to bed—the eucalyptus drifted ghostlike in the mist. A fox visited every evening, and Stanton began to put out his scraps. The shepherd moved on without goodbyes. In the woods, Stanton saw hunters with ancient guns. He thought he saw the boy once, but when he got to the place there was no one. Four more weeks and he had a complete draft. He drove half an hour, the windscreen wipers sticking and dislodging and sticking again, to the nearest big town, where he knew he could buy Glenfiddich. At home, he poured a generous measure. A fire, he thought, would be nice. The wood caught on the third attempt, but it was still damp and the smoke hurt his eyes and made him cough. He was sick of these four walls. In the last month he’d spoken barely a dozen words. He thought about Jay. It would be good to see the boy again. Chrissie. Lovely Chrissie. She wouldn’t be angry. Chrissie could hardly complain. They’d said they’d have a beer. Ruby. Well, Ruby. Ruby would be all right. She’d made the first move, remember. Been around a bit. How many visitors did they get over there, anyway? Let’s have a fucking drink, mate. Yes, let’s have a fucking drink. The whiskey bottle bounced off the passenger seat as he swung a sharp left. He sang an old tune as he pulled up by the chicken shed. You can blow out the candle but you can’t put out the fire. When he opened the door, he noticed the calf, much bigger now, bandy legs and bloated stomach, standing by the house with rain running from its nose and tail and its hooves in plastic bags. The wind howled through the bamboo and sent a curtain of water off the roof. Chrissie answered the door and backed away from him, and he went in and found that all the Pottses were there and that none were ready with a greeting. “What kind of man are you?” China spoke quietly. Chrissie stood behind Ruby and stroked her hair. Stanton, needing salvation, tried to smile at Jay, but the boy would not look at him. “What kind of man are you?” That was all. Chrissie did not speak and Ruby did not speak and Jay did not speak and Stanton had no answer. He waited for China to call him every name under the sun, but China did not oblige. Long after all hope had gone, Stanton stood there and waited for something to happen and nothing happened at all. On the drive back, he swerved to avoid a tractor he hadn’t seen coming, the pickup skidded into the verge, and two wheels sank without hesitation into the mud. It was not far to walk. He drank a good measure of whiskey before removing his clothes, and he found that if he just kept up a constant sipping, very evenly spaced, taking very small sips, he could keep all thoughts from his head. The whiskey was warming. If he observed very closely, very carefully, the way it travelled out from the solar plexus along all the major arteries and branched off along each individual vein, he could feel it as a kind of calm radiating out from the core of his being. He woke in his chair, naked and half frozen, and when he went to boil water he could not feel his toes, and his fingers were too stiff to strike a match. His head hurt. His back was broken; or if not broken, then something worse. When he bent to put his socks on, he nearly cried. He set off to walk up to the telephone box, and on the way he thought about how beautiful the place was and how much he would miss it. The rain had stopped in the night, and the sun played in the treetops, scattering diamonds here and there. It teased purples and scarlets from the plowed-up field and burnished the far-off hills a fine shade of nostalgia. He breathed deeply and it was good to smell the eucalyptus and the pine, and he felt the air making him clean inside. As he came up to the road, he saw an old man in a black felt hat and waistcoat leading a cow along the opposite track, heading for the village at such a slow pace, as if they had all the time in the world, as if arriving were nothing and the journey everything. He raised a hand and the old man raised a hand. They passed each other and Stanton went on his way. 
Three Days It’s starting to get dark. Beatrice walks along the highway from the bus depot up to her family’s house. She avoids the roadway by walking just outside the guardrail in the long, dry grass that’s been matted down by road salt and rain, strewn with trash and the surprisingly bloated body of a dead raccoon. Beatrice imagines that every car and truck passing holds someone she once knew in high school. Inside their cars they are shaking their heads and asking, “Is that Beatrice? What the hell is she doing with a bloated raccoon carcass?” Beatrice turns up the drive. She hasn’t seen the farm in more than a year. After her father died, she moved away to the city—not for any good reason, just for a change, and now she likes it there. She likes the fact that all the humiliations involved with entering her thirties as a single woman are happening behind her closed apartment door, out of the view of her family and everyone she has ever known. There are some weathered plastic Duane Reade Easter decorations—a hip-high bunny rabbit and a bright-green egg—wired to the front porch. It is Thanksgiving. And so from the road where Beatrice stands it appears that, in the time she’s been gone, redneck clones of her brother and her mother have moved in and had their perverted redneck way with the house. The farm is now an island in a sea of big chain stores. While the surrounding farms were plowed under, one by one, and turned into shopping centers, her parents had stood by. They had waited rather than selling their land, as the neighbors all had, and now, along a ten-mile strip of parking lots, stores, gas stations, banks, and supermarkets, their farm is the last one left. It isn’t even much of a farm. Beatrice’s parents had given up farming seven years before when, one morning, Beatrice’s mother told her father, “I don’t feel like getting out of bed.” He looked her over and, holding her jaw in his hands, he studied her face for a long while before saying, “Yeah. I can see it. Right there on your forehead,” as if there were some word written across her brow, a word that excused her from farmwork for the rest of her life. Within a few weeks, Beatrice’s father had become an expert crossword-puzzle solver. He’d even considered writing a novel, before realizing that soon they would be broke. Beatrice’s parents had to start working or sell the farm, and so they made a decision. They leased their land to a conglomerate soybean operation and applied for jobs in the new industrial park. Her father got work as a loan adjuster, her mother got a job in advertising, working in the satellite office of a company called Mythologic Development, which turned myths and sometimes history into marketable packages used for making new products and ideas more digestible to the consumer public. Her father didn’t like having an office job. He used his sick days as soon as he got them, but Beatrice’s mother had always been very dramatic, someone who swooned or leaped without provocation; the sort of person who would sing while grocery shopping and then wonder why people were staring at her. She flourished during the brainstorming conference calls that were a regular feature of her new job. She’d dominate the conversations with her patched-together notions of Leda and the swan, the void of Ginnungagap, the bubonic plague and Hathor the Egyptian goddess, whom she reënvisioned as a nineteen-year-old Ukrainian supermodel spokesperson for a vodka company. Beatrice’s parents hadn’t been born farmers. Rather, it was one of many bright ideas they’d developed in their twenties, ideas like dropping out of college in their junior year, forgoing regular dentist visits, and having children, children they decided to name Beatrice and Clement. “Right,” Clem says after Thanksgiving dinner. He stands to leave the table. He shakes his head at his mother and Beatrice. Clem works as a carpenter, though he’s mostly interested in small projects like cabinets and decks and hand carving the names of rock bands he likes into soft pieces of wood. “Going to toke up?” Beatrice’s mother asks him. He pops his head back inside the kitchen. He is stocky and solid, like a bolted zucchini that has grown too long. He holds a finger and thumb up to his lips, inhaling, pinching together a vacancy in between them. Their mother has put a feather in her hair for the holiday, her “Indian headdress.” She can’t stand it that her son is a pothead and sometimes she’ll get a look, as if she’s trying not to cry just thinking about it. She’s a very good actress. She stares at Clem. She is drunk. They all are. Beatrice’s mother can make her bottom jaw tremble so slightly that the movement is barely perceptible. She looks just like Clem—dark hair, red skin, and papery lips. She stares at him with her mouth wide open, waiting for him to feel guilty. Beatrice looks away. It is extremely difficult for Beatrice to think of her mother as someone with thoughts and desires, with plans and schemes, as someone who, quite possibly, keeps a Rimmed Rod vibrator in her bedside drawer, the way Beatrice does, as someone who might dream about a tremendous ice cube, the size of a sofa, melting in the middle of a hot desert, and wake up having absolutely no idea what the dream means—someone just like Beatrice. “Dude, I’m so stoned,” Clem says, laughing once, faking a stumble before disappearing. As he opens the front door, the flat sound of road traffic sneaks inside. Beatrice’s mother sighs while Beatrice stands to clear the table. She holds the turkey over the garbage by its breastbone, dangling it there while her mother splits what is left in the last wine bottle between their two glasses. “When Atlantis was sinking there was an awful period of”—and Beatrice’s mother stops to think of the proper word but can’t. “Of sinking,” she says and places her open hands on either side of her face, like the sunshine. Her mother resorts to theatrics when she is nervous. Beatrice cringes at the gesture. She knows that her mother is going to try to tell her something she doesn’t want to hear. “Imagine,” her mother says, her hands still in place. “People went to sleep inland and woke up with the ocean right there at their door. And when they stepped outside in the morning to pee or to feed their goats all the neighbors were gone without a trace and the only sound was waves lapping.” Beatrice’s mother still works for Mythologic and now she firmly believes that all concepts are better communicated through specious retellings of ancient myths. Most of the time, Beatrice can’t see the connections. Her mother slowly drags a finger across the kitchen table and then does it again. Beatrice remains entirely still, frozen like a field rabbit, hoping that her mother will decide not to tell her whatever it is she wants to tell her. She can already imagine its perimeters: “Honey, I wish you would think about a job that offers insurance,” or, “I know a real nice young man you might like to meet, Bea.” But he wouldn’t be a nice, young man. He would be another forty-five-year-old divorced actor her mother had met through community-theatre projects, a man who also holds his hands up around either side of his face like the sunshine when he wants to make a point. Or else maybe she wants to tell Beatrice that she is finally going to sell the farm. Beatrice is wrong. Her mother doesn’t say anything like that. Instead she says, “When your dad was in the hospital the doctor gave me a choice, Bea.” She rubs her palms across her skinny thighs, exhaling. “The doctor asked me, ‘Do you want to stop his pain?’ And at first I said, Yeah, of course, but then the doctor asked again, ‘No. Do you really, really want to stop his pain?’ And Bea, I knew what he meant and I said yes. I killed your dad, Bea.” She is drunk. They both are. “You killed him?” “Well, not me, but the doctor. I told the doctor to go ahead and get it over with.” “What does that have to do with Atlantis?” Beatrice asks. Her mother has to think for a moment. She looks up to the ceiling before asking Bea, “We all have to die sometime?” Beatrice stares straight ahead like a TV stuck on static, the remote control gone dead. She blinks a series of gray and black squiggled lines. No reception. Nothing. Her mother’s words are not getting through; they are stones dropped into a bottomless hole, the hollow known as Beatrice. They fall and fall until they are too far away to be heard. Beatrice watches the unwound egg timer beside the stove until her mother interrupts. “You want to watch a movie, hon?” The question is like a slap to the side of the TV. The static clears, the program resumes. Beatrice shakes her head. It’s a story, Beatrice remembers, about a mother and her kids on a farm in Pennsylvania, a dull after-school special broadcast for the Thanksgiving holiday. Beatrice studies her mother’s face. Beatrice thinks, If I sit in the living room with my mother watching a movie, I will explode and all that will spill out, all that I will have left inside will be a dark-green syrup of boredom that my mother will have to sponge off the floor with some Fantastik and a towel. “No. I’m going to go see what Clem’s up to,” Beatrice says. She is still holding the turkey by its breastbone. It has started to sway. Beatrice drops the bird into the trash and it makes a great swoosh as it falls into the white plastic garbage bag. When Beatrice was a girl, Clement still a baby, and the farm in O.K. shape, she and her father used to walk the fields at least once a day. The furrows were dry and bulging and Beatrice liked how it felt when the dirt broke underneath her Muck Boots. Before the harvest, corn plants rose so far up over her head that, walking under their canopy, she’d lose sight of everything except her father’s legs marching ahead of her. She’d put her hand inside his and he’d hold it a bit roughly, as if her hand were a tiny mouse he’d captured. She’d pretend that he was not her father at all but a boyfriend, someone handsome from the movies or TV. He once told her, “Bea, don’t say anything to your mom, but I’m the king of all the farmers.” They walked on a bit farther and came across an irrigation hose that had cracked its rubber tubing. Her father fingered the leak and stared out at the land as if he had every intention of coming back and patching up the cracked hose. But he’d never come back. He just liked to look that way from time to time. “Farming,” he’d say, “takes ten per cent perspiration and ninety per cent inspiration.” Beatrice had always heard this the other way around, but there was a conviction to her father’s way of talking. Maybe he was the king. He wasn’t a bad farmer. He just didn’t do things the way they had always been done. For instance, pruning trees—he had no time for it, or thinning plants. He hated to yank up seedlings that had been eager enough to sprout, and so he’d let the vegetables grow right on top of each other. He’d let the carrots and beets twist around each other, deformed by their proximity to other carrots and beets. “They still taste just as sweet,” he’d say, but no one wanted to buy the bulbous and bent oddities that came from such close growing quarters. Beatrice’s father also rarely wore proper farmer clothing. Instead he dressed in chinos, button-down Oxford shirts, and canvas sneakers. “They’re cheap” is all he ever had to say. Beatrice thought her dad looked like James Dean in the movie “East of Eden.” James Dean riding on a John Deere. He’d hay the fields, and Beatrice would follow along behind him in the trail of the tractor’s exhaust—fumes that made her dizzy, gave her a sour stomach. Her head would fill with the sound of Munchkins singing, “Follow the yellow brick road,” because that was what the cut hay looked like. James Dean and the yellow brick road. She would have followed wherever he led her. Outside, the sodium-vapor lamps from the shopping-center parking lots wash away any definition. Everything on the farm glows the same gray color at night. It makes it difficult to see and Beatrice trips on an old pig trough that her mother has been using as a planter for impatiens. “What’s up, dude?” her brother asks when she yelps. Clem has converted half of the barn into an apartment, where he lives. There are no locks on his apartment because his door is an old cellar hatch from a house that was demolished to make way for a Dunkin’ Donuts. His kitchen countertops are built from plywood that one of the malls had used to make concrete molds and then tossed. Most of his apartment was built from salvage or from stuff he lifted off construction sites at night. It is a common practice among Clem’s friends. Lots of the local contractors steal from the shopping-center construction sites, too. “This used to be where Matthew Campbell’s milking pavilion was, so I guess we can just help ourselves. He wouldn’t mind.” “Let’s go downtown,” Beatrice says. “Let’s see if the stores are open on Thanksgiving.” “All right. I guess,” Clem says, uncertain if he wants to go out in the cold but still enough under the sway of his older sister that he’ll do what she wants to do. He detaches himself from his video game. “Can I try that first?” she asks. “This?” He holds the controls up. “Yeah, yeah sure,” he says and begins to set it up for her, re-starting the game. “Do you know how to play?” “No.” “I’ll start you off slowly,” he says and slips her hand into a glove that is rigged with controls. It is filled with tiny nodes, like suction cups. She thinks of the dead raccoon’s puckered skin. “Sit down,” he says and she does. At first nothing happens. The screen turns blue and the nodes tickle her hand. She looks around the apartment while Clem fusses with the machinery. The space is tiny and the walls are mostly covered with shelves and cabinets. Clem moved out of the main house right after high school when he fell in love with a girl named Anna. They lived in the barn together for almost five years but Anna moved to the city a year ago. She hasn’t yet picked up all her stuff and Beatrice can see some of Anna’s clothes, some textbooks she and Clem kept from school, and a nice set of silver that Anna’s grandparents gave her. Everything is covered with small balls of dust and bits of old hay from the barn. Sometimes Anna and Beatrice meet up for coffee in the city. They never talk about the farm or about Clem. In fact, they act as though they are survivors who lived through some sort of low-budget, straight-to-DVD apocalypse that is too painful, too cheap to mention. Finally the video game starts up. On-screen a woman is walking though a Zen Buddhist garden. She is wearing a tight silver outfit and carries a long sword. “That’s you,” Clem tells Beatrice. “Use the glove to go forward.” So Beatrice does. She walks through the garden, but slowly, because she knows that at any moment someone is probably going to tiptoe up behind her, wielding some horrible machete, and she has already had a number of glasses of red wine. She’s not sure she can fight back. With her hand in the glove Beatrice can feel the girl walking. It makes her shiver, as if someone had cracked an egg on the crown of her skull and the yolk was oozing down her ears and neck, as if she were inside the girl’s digital skin. Behind her, Clem lights a joint and starts to softly hum the video game’s TV jingle, giving Bea a soundtrack. He watches the girl on the screen slowly creep forward and flash the blade of her sword. Beatrice starts to smile and he passes her the joint, which she takes with her ungloved hand. She is very jerky with the controls and sometimes the girl on the screen suddenly starts to walk backward or just stands there doing nothing, flicking her sword. Beatrice takes a drag and holds the smoke, wondering if the girl in the video game will also get high. There are pathways off to the left and the right in the garden but Beatrice can’t quite figure out how to turn yet. Clem hums the jingle and Beatrice exhales, imagining a handsome man with a deep radio voice speaking over the hum. The man whispers directly into Beatrice’s ear as if reading her the fine print. He whispers a message that she can’t quite hear though it fills her with longing just the same. A pack of ninja warriors surprises her from above and after a very short fight Beatrice is dead. It is colder than most Thanksgivings. The ruts in the driveway have solidified, forming seals of creaky ice. Beatrice and Clem walk to his truck in silence and she feels as if she were still onscreen. She imagines that the video game has somehow sharpened her abilities. She feels as if she could control the world with her hand, sense sounds with her skin. She thinks she can hear her brother’s fingers jangling the keys in his pocket. She can even hear her mother sigh as the commercial break starts. Beatrice hasn’t smoked pot in a long time. She thinks she can feel every person who has ever stepped on the driveway before her. Oil deliverymen. Insurance salespeople. Lenape Indians. Everyone. She feels the outline of all these people so precisely that they become solid bodies beneath her feet. She worries that she might be squishing their faces with her boots. Clem pulls his keys from his pocket and Beatrice has an idea. “Let’s take Humbletonian,” she says, letting go of the truck’s door handle. Humbletonian is a horse. When her parents sold the farm animals, they kept a few chickens for eggs and one horse named Humbletonian. Her father named the horse this because she was not a Hambletonian. A Hambletonian is a very distinguished trotting horse. A Humbletonian is nothing. It is like changing your name to Stonerfeller because you are not a Rockefeller. “In the trailer?” her brother asks and then answers the question himself, “No. You mean we should ride the horse into town? Right? Right. Cool,” he says, his eyes a bit glassy. They walk back to the barn, breaking the ice again. After their father stopped farming, he liked to take a sleeping bag up to the loft above the horse’s stable after dinner. He’d smoke cigarettes up there and spend the night as if he were a Boy Scout. He thought that the horse’s wild nature would make him feel better about working in an office. He thought the horse would soothe the unease inside his rib cage. From the loft, her father used to pretend that he was Jerry Lee Lewis, using an old table-saw platform for a piano. He’d sing “Breathless” to the horse. “You. Leave. Me.” Pause. Pause. “Breathless.” Though her father’s odd behavior seemed exciting at the time, Beatrice now thinks that horses aren’t wild at all, horses can’t soothe our unease in the world. Horses are about the most broken, unwild creatures in existence, except for maybe burros and dogs. They do exactly what humans tell them to do. So when she thinks of her father sleeping in the loft above his horse or riding Humbletonian across their forty acres because he thought it would cure him of that unease in his chest, pity drips from her like a bit of drool out of the corner of her mouth. She thinks, How stupid. She thinks, Dad, that wasn’t unease. It was lung cancer. “Hello, pumpkin pie,” Clem says to the horse. He pets Humbletonian’s nose and rests his own face there for a moment before attaching her reins. The barn smells yellow, like urine and old pine boards. The horse’s belly sags in a way that reminds Beatrice of a velour reclining chair. “Hello, La-Z-Boy girl,” Beatrice says and also kisses the horse. Humbletonian does not look particularly happy to see her. Clem puts a hand on the saddle that is straddling the stable wall but Beatrice shakes her head no. So he leads the horse outside by the reins and crouches down on one knee, keeping the other lifted square. Beatrice uses Clem’s knee as a boost and climbs up onto the horse’s bare back. “Whoop,” Beatrice whoops. In a moment her brother is seated behind her. He is so strong that she barely felt him lift himself up. He wraps his big zucchini arms around her sides, reaching for the reins. Brother and sister are quiet as they trot out to the end of the driveway, through the fields that have been harvested for the year. The sound of dead stalks and frost crunching under Humbletonian’s hooves fills in around the gray quiet of the night. The video game’s jingle is still rattling in the back of Beatrice’s head. “I don’t know what she’ll think of the road,” Clem finally says. “I don’t think she’s ever been past the far field.” Their mother barely uses the horse these days except when she gets her car stuck in the muddy divots of their driveway and she has to harness Humbletonian to the bumper to pull while she pushes. But they reach the end of the driveway and Humbletonian turns left and trots along the breakdown lane as if she can’t wait to get down to town, as if there were nothing to it. Out on the road Humbletonian’s hooves sound like winter—metal on ice or an empty galvanized pail tossed down a stone staircase, a full, complete sound. They pass an abandoned barn that is wedged between two service stations and two narrow swaths of dried red clover. Someone has spray-painted the words “Luv Shak” below a tin sign advertising the Crystal Cave tourist attraction. The land is flat and open here. The road is the straightest road there is. It runs all the way down to where the Pennsylvania Dutch people live in villages that have kooky names like Paradise, Intercourse, and Blue Ball. An eighteen-wheeled tanker speeds up behind Humbletonian. The whoosh it makes blows Beatrice a bit to the right. The truck is followed by a car honking its horn to get past the truck. Beatrice turns to look at the car as it goes by and the man in the passenger seat stares out at Beatrice and Clem and their horse on the highway. The man does not seem surprised to see a horse and riders on the highway on Thanksgiving evening; rather, he seems angry, unimpressed. He throws his cigarette butt toward them and it explodes against the asphalt like a bomb sized for insects. “I just thought that cigarette was an insect bomb,” Beatrice says but then she realizes that Clem will think she means one of those actual bug bombs that you load into your house if the house has fleas, before vacating the premises for a few hours. “I mean,” she says, but a truck passes and then another and then she decides not to bother with the sublime clarification she was just about to make. Instead she starts to laugh. Her stomach feels alone and nervous. She cannot stop laughing until she burps a burning red-wine burp. She laughs until she thinks she will vomit. “I’m going to puke,” she says. “No. No, you won’t,” Clem answers and pats his older sister on the back one, two, three times. And he is right. Beatrice leans forward against Humbletonian’s neck and the warmth of the horse feels good on her stomach. They ride the rest of the way in silence except for the click of Humbletonian’s hooves and the rush of the horse’s warm pulse. One of the myths Beatrice’s mother was responsible for developing was a fictionalized version of Montezuma meeting Cortés for the first time. Her company had no qualms about taking history and turning it into myth. Her mother’s co-workers rarely bothered to differentiate between those things that had actually happened and those things that people just used to say had happened. They’d take history and add to it and no one knew the difference anymore. For example, they might say that Montezuma could fly through the air carrying three virgins at a time to a sacrificial altar in the sky. They might say that there was bloodshed when these two men met or that Cortés was part man, part horse. Mythologic Development sold the Montezuma-Cortés myth to an amusement park in Maryland, which used it for a roller coaster called the Aztecathon. The concept sold for a good price but her mother was a salaried employee and so she saw very little of the money. Now the amusement park owns Montezuma. He is the park’s intellectual property. Beatrice’s mother keeps a painting of Montezuma over her bed. In the painting he looks more like a famous movie star than like an Aztec ruler. Beatrice’s mother likes that about him. She tells Beatrice that she is in love with Montezuma now that Beatrice’s father is gone. “But Montezuma is also dead,” Beatrice says and her mother smiles as if that were a really good joke. “Who-ah,” Clem says and Humbletonian turns into the Middleland Mall Complex. They pass through a very large empty parking lot that is dotted with circles of light. It is freezing cold. “Who-ah,” Clem says again and Humbletonian clops to a halt outside the Wal-Mart entrance. At the doors, they wait on the horse. Their breath is visible in the cold air. Humbletonian stomps her hoof as though she were asking, “What next?” Her motion is detected by a sensor, which swings open the door to let them in. The store is not closed. Humbletonian is surprised and takes a few steps backward before she steadies again. “Why don’t we just ride her into the store?” Beatrice asks. Clem and Beatrice would have to duck their heads to make it through the entry but it would be great. “I bet they’ve never had a horse inside there,” she says. Clem is tilting his neck, considering the option, when a security officer stationed by the theft-deterrent metal-detector station stands to adjust his utility belt. The security guard eyes Clem and Beatrice’s transportation with more than suspicion. He steps outside. “I know you’re not even thinking about bringing that beast in here,” he says. “But I was thinking of it,” Clem answers quickly. “So that’s weird that you would say you know what I was thinking, because you would be wrong.” Clem doesn’t crack a smile or move. The guard palms his nightstick. They stare each other down, Clem and the guard. Beatrice thinks that the guard looks like just the sort of security officer who would be thrilled to call the cops and have her and Clem ticketed or arrested for some inane livestock violation that is still on the books from 1823, like No Horse-Riding on Public Holidays. Clem looks away and leaps down off Humbletonian, leading Beatrice and her over to the corral for collecting shopping carts. He ties Humbletonian’s reins to the metal bar and Beatrice slides down off the curve of her flank. Inside, few people seem to be shopping. Clem says to one young man wearing a Wal-Mart smock, “Excuse me. What’s going on here?” The young man raises his eyebrows but makes no response, waiting for some clue as to how he can assist them. “Lots of things are going on here,” the boy says finally. “I mean, how come Wal-Mart’s open?” Clem asks. “It’s freaking Thanksgiving.” The boy says nothing. He looks as if he wants to punch Clem. Instead he stares straight ahead at the dog food he’s been pricing. He looks to the back of the shelf as though he can see something golden there that’s invisible to everyone else. Clem bends to see what the boy’s looking at. There’s nothing there. Just the back of the metal shelf. “Thank you,” Clem says quickly. He grabs Beatrice’s arm and leads her away. Up front, the store is ready for Christmas. Past Christmas comes an aisle of automotive and craft/hobby supplies, then an aisle of hair products and footwear, then an aisle of watches and diamond-chip rings. All of these aisles dead-end at the wall of sporting goods / hunting gear. Ladies’ and menswear is intersected by a row of birthday cards, logic-puzzle books, scented candles, deodorant, and toothpaste. Beatrice and Clem pass the electronics division. They’re sold out of the game Clem was thinking about buying, Dead or Alive 5000. There is a paper “Sale” sign that Clem swipes at. “Do you need anything?” he asks. “While we’re here?” The fluorescent lighting is beginning to drive Beatrice crazy because she imagines that she can detect its flashing pulse. “Nope. Let’s go.” Clem takes a pack of gum, looks at it, and then puts it in his pocket. “For Mom,” he says and they leave quickly, without paying for the gum. Outside, Humbletonian is no longer tied up. She is gone and Beatrice bets it was the security guard. “Shit,” Clem says and giggles because, by the shopping-cart corral, there is a pile of horseshit that Humbletonian left behind. “Fuck,” Beatrice says and laughs. Clem scans the parking lot. The circles of light underneath each lamp are still there but there is no horse. “You go that way,” Clem tells Beatrice. “I’ll go this way and I’ll meet you around back. We’ll flush her out.” Clem departs around one side of the giant complex and Beatrice walks off in the other direction. The store is so long that she feels as though she’ll never even reach the corner of it. Beatrice imagines that she is an astronaut dragging a two-hundred-pound spacesuit and that is why her footsteps seem not to be carrying her forward. She stops. “I wouldn’t have killed him,” Beatrice says out loud and waits until she hears a question from the far side of her brain, from her mother. “What would you have done? Just let him suffer? Let him go on breathing that bubbly wet breath that sounded like a damn water fountain?” “Yes,” Beatrice answers. “Yes, I would have.” The Wal-Mart does not seem to end. It goes on and on, windowless and solid. Beatrice thinks of the old cartoons where an illustrator would draw two panels of background, a desert or a pine forest, and then, by bringing one panel in front of the other, he could repeat it and repeat it and repeat it, a duplicated landscape that Wile E. Coyote could run through without end. If she had four legs she’d be able to get around the back of the mall faster. She thinks to skip but after ten or eleven lengths her lungs chug and backfire on the cold air. She stops and walks the rest of the way. Behind the shopping center there are bulldozers, at least twenty of them, and they seem to be huddled with their backs to Beatrice, as if they are in a private conference. It’s freezing. Apart from the dozers there’s nothing here except for a gigantic hole. It is tremendous, far larger than a football field, and it is filled with water. In the dark, the hole extends beyond the limit of Beatrice’s vision. Clem is already standing at the edge, looking down into it. Humbletonian is there, too, only she has climbed down into the pit and is walking across the surface of the ice that has formed there. It’s like a lake. Maybe one of the bulldozers broke a water pipe while digging. There is a lot of water here, a reservoir’s worth of drinking water, or, Beatrice hopes not, frozen sewage. Humbletonian is walking across the ice, bending every now and again to lick the surface. Gross. “Woohoo! Humbletonian!” Clem yells. “Good horse. Good horse,” he shouts, so that Humbletonian turns from where she is, halfway across the ice, and when she sees Clem and Beatrice she begins to trot across the very center of the pit toward them, more like a dog than a horse. Her coat is nearly as silver as the ice, and beautiful. Beatrice lifts up her arms and shakes her hips. “Woohoo! Horsy!” she calls. Time slows to a speed where Beatrice can notice every single thing. She notices Humbletonian’s muscles, her breath coming out of her flared nostrils, and the odd rhythm of her trot. She notices the gorgeous ice and dirt and the lovely darkness, thick like felt, that exists in this ugly place. She can hear each hoof as it falls against the ice. Beauty is standing somewhere nearby, Beatrice thinks, and it’s a shadowy person whose exhales become Beatrice’s inhales, warming her up, and this moment of warmth, this beautiful horse is why, Beatrice feels certain, a jealous hole cracks open in the ice, a hole that swallows the back legs and hindquarters of Humbletonian faster than a greedy thought. Humbletonian tries to clear the water, to get a hoof back up on solid ice, but each clop of her front hooves shatters what she’s grabbed and pulls it under with her. There can’t be that much water underneath her. But there is. She’s not touching the bottom. Humbletonian is flailing. Clem starts to swear, but slowly, everything is happening so slowly at first that it seems time will come to a halt and the world behind the shopping center will be all right. It seems as if it might even be possible to ignore the drowning horse altogether, as though Beatrice and her brother are here only in a dream, and they will both wake up very soon. Beatrice reaches her arms even higher. “Clem,” she says. Clem wrings his hands. He lowers himself into the pit, down to where the ice starts. He is moving slowly, carefully. Humbletonian is thrashing. It’s the only sound there is. The water must be freezing. Humbletonian is thrashing in it. “Clem,” Beatrice says again, and again Clem wrings his hands so hard he looks as though he might tear them off from his wrists. He steps out onto the edge of the ice and creeps toward Humbletonian. She is in up to her middle. Only her front hooves and her head are above the ice. Clem stops. The horse is twisting and snorting. She is screaming as much as a horse can scream. Clem raises his hands to his face. He takes another step toward the horse. “Clem,” Beatrice repeats his name a third time, and finally he turns to look at her. A seam has been cut open in Clem right through the very center of his face. She sees it. A seam that says there is no way to stop this. No fucking way for a man to save a horse drowning in freezing water. Clem stands still. He brings his hands up to his ears and, pressing the small knobs of cartilage there, he stops listening. Quiet moments pass. The static returns, as though it were being broadcast from nearby. Humbletonian starts giving up. She falls still. The water has dropped her into shock. Beatrice can see a lot of white in the horse’s eye, as though it had been pried open. It blinks dry air once more, for the last time. Humbletonian’s head goes under and all Beatrice can see are her forelegs above the barrier of the ice. Her legs kick, emptying what’s inside them. It is a gruesome convulsion. “She’s getting away,” Beatrice finally says and skids on her heels down to where her brother is standing. She passes him and walks out onto the ice. A loud crack bellows from the frozen water, like a whip pushing Beatrice back, away from her horse. Beatrice drops to her knees on the ice and Humbletonian goes under all the way. Their horse is gone. The water flattens out over her head. Clem lowers his hands. “Don’t,” he says but Beatrice doesn’t listen. She sits down on the ice and watches the hole where Humbletonian went. She slides closer toward it on her knees. The hole doesn’t do anything. It’s difficult to say what happens next. The silence fills in around Beatrice and Clem like insulation. The two of them stare for a long while, looking down into the black hole where their horse disappeared, waiting, maybe, for some triumphant geyser, a phoenix, or Pegasus to rise up out of the hole. Nothing happens. Perhaps fifteen minutes pass or maybe half an hour before they recognize what they are staring at: an empty black hole. “Clem,” Beatrice says with her back still turned to him, still looking at the hole. “You know what Mom told me?” “What?” “She gave the doctors permission to kill Dad.” “Yeah, I know,” Clem says. “You know?” “Yeah, she asked me what I thought before she did it,” he says. No one asked Beatrice. She sat by her father’s hospital bed for days, rubbing lotion into the dry skin of his calves and feet and no one said anything to her. “No one asked me,” she tells Clem. “We already knew what you’d say.” Since her father’s death, Beatrice has tried to turn her parents into two-dimensional pieces of paper she can fold up, tuck into her back pocket, and forget about when she does her laundry, picking them out of the lint trap later: her mother all things bad, her father all things good. But Clem ruins it every time. There’s Clem, sitting on the ice, shaking his head, saying, “It’s no one’s fault, Bea. It’s no one’s fault.” Beatrice would like to find someone to blame. Even with the static, she sees clearly, as though there were a map in front of her, a map of yesterday, today, and tomorrow. She sees that they arrived here at this future rather than a different one. One with horses. Maybe that future would have been better. But instead they had arrived here to a time when their farm is dead, when Beatrice has moved away to the city, when Clem is stuck in place, and when, most nights, her mother walks down to the end of the driveway, out to meet the incoming tide in Pennsylvania. Beatrice leans forward, lowering her whole body onto the ice. She pushes herself on her stomach out to where the horse disappeared. She lies there. She rests her cheek there for a long time. She pets her horse through the ice. “Don’t go any farther!” Clem yells as Beatrice dips her hand inside the hole, into a land that is already lost. 
The Albanian Writers’ Union as Mirrored by a Woman To compare the Albanian Writers’ Union to a whore seems extremely vulgar, like so many overused metaphors, particularly the ones that have become common since the fall of Communism. Yet my plan to put together an accurate history of the Union (or, at least, its history from 1962 to 1967) has always awakened in me the vision of a certain woman named Marguerite. I am unable to dissociate one from the other; they are bound together like a fragrance to an almost forgotten memory. Marguerite was a prostitute. She lived in a little alley off Dibra Street, more or less opposite the alley at the end of which the Writers’ Union was situated in those years. I’d heard that an architect in France had constructed a modern building with an all-glass façade designed to reflect the classical cathedral across the street from it, and that, since then, such appositions had become quite fashionable. Still, it was difficult to imagine any particular link between the Writers’ Union building, or the institution it represented, and the woman who lived across the way. It was all the more difficult given that the Writers’ Union, before taking up residence here, in what had been, under the monarchy, the villa of the Minister of the Interior, had been situated in Carnarvon Street, in a courtyard it shared with the former palace of the princesses, as well as the National Library. (Later, when the Union was moved again, this time to the building in Kavaja Street where King Zog had celebrated his wedding, in 1938, people began to suspect that some mysterious royalist shadow was looming over that ultra-Communist institution.) What was beyond doubt was the fact that I had come to know of Marguerite for the simple reason that her home was situated in an alley across from the Writers’ Union. On Dibra Street, there was a little coffee shop where the young reporters who worked at the Writers’ Union often downed beers when the weather was hot. Next to it was a privately owned fruit stall. It was there that I saw Marguerite for the first time. I was just coming out of the coffee shop when a friend from the Union whispered, “Look, there’s Marguerite, the woman who lives across the street.” I’d heard about her, but so vaguely that I’d forgotten everything—I knew only that she was one of “those women” of an earlier time, who was said to live with her aged mother in a little house in the alley. Despite what I’d imagined, she was in her mid-thirties, and the light summer dress she was wearing made her look even younger. She had a pale complexion and chestnut-brown hair that fell in loose curls to the nape of her neck, and she didn’t look the least bit vulgar. A sort of Anna Karenina, but without Vronsky or the screech of carriage wheels—in place of which she had assumed the fate of a fallen woman in a Communist country in the Balkans in the sixties. As we returned to the Writers’ Union, I listened attentively to what my colleague had to say about her. She was the classiest prostitute in all of Tirana, and apparently the only one of her kind. It was amazing that she was still here in Albania. Her clients were a select group of gentlemen who learned of her by word of mouth. She used the forbidden form of address, “Sir,” and let them stay all night. At three in the morning, her mother would serve coffee, and the client would slip payment, a thousand leks, discreetly under Marguerite’s pillow. Rarely had I listened to the details of a story with such fascination. If someone had told me earlier that I would be captivated by a woman of the old ways—like one of those ladies in muslin hats and veils, glimpsed perhaps in a gondola, whose likenesses you could still find in family photo albums in Tirana’s bourgeois households—I would have died laughing. You’re a ridiculous old man after all, I would have told myself, nothing but a sentimental fool hiding behind your stylish bell-bottoms, your sweater with “XX” on it to symbolize the twentieth century, and all the other fatuous accessories you use to attract girls. Still, as if rising through a crack in the ice, a truth surfaced in my mind, one that had long lain dormant there: the girls I knew—the ones with perfect stomachs toned by long hours of sports, manual labor, and swimming—suddenly seemed sterile and lacking in mystery in comparison with Marguerite’s body, as I imagined it. It was long after midnight—I don’t know what time exactly, but perhaps the very moment when Marguerite’s mother was bringing a second cup of coffee up to her bedroom—and I was lying awake imagining Marguerite’s black garters hung over her bedpost, her weary silk undergarments crumpled by lovemaking. The black garters of the ladies of another age Cast shadows over my thoughts like twilight. It was hard to tell how long this passion had been pulsating within me. It seemed as though it had not one but several sources, like rivulets that join together to form a stream. I believed that I’d seen photographs of such old-fashioned women, mounted on gravestones in Tirana cemeteries. And one day, on a street corner near Café Ora, I’d seen the famous linguist E.Ç. greet a lady by raising his hat. This was such an unusual sight in the Albanian capital that I’d followed the scholar for a little while, hoping that he would repeat the gesture. But ladies, it seems, were rare in the streets of Tirana. I knew that because of a similar gesture—because he had kissed the hand of a female scholar from a country now regarded as hostile to ours—E.Ç. was no longer allowed to attend international conferences. As I was walking behind him, I thought what torture it must have been for him to have to unlearn such customs. We young intellectuals had the advantage of never even having known how to kiss a woman’s hand. If we’d tried we would most likely have been as ungainly as chimps, or, worse, we would have scarred those dainty fingers with our protruding teeth. It occurred to me that Marguerite’s clients were probably men like E.Ç., although I couldn’t quite imagine the old professor knocking on her door in the alley. No, her clients must have been different. Different, but how? Although I was pleasantly preoccupied with the thought of visiting Marguerite’s house in the alley, the plan was shrouded in fog. How could I make contact with her? How could I meet whoever it was who procured her clients? Simply to turn up at her house uninvited was unthinkable. My attraction to Marguerite might have faded with time, as so many things do, had I not run into her once again at the fruit store. I was standing on the sidewalk coming on to a young woman poet, with whom I was very likely to get somewhere, since she was the type that’s particularly susceptible to men who treat women with indifference and speak to them with incomprehensible pretension. I was going on about the castrated Hindu students I’d met at the Gorky Institute, in Moscow, among other equally absurd subjects, but the moment I saw Marguerite I forgot what I was saying. She was making her way timidly—almost fearfully—across the road, like someone who never left home. Having lost my train of thought, I began to babble nonsensically. Following an appeal by Jawaharlal Nehru and a U.N. commission of inquiry into demographic growth, I asserted, Indian students were being castrated in their own country, to the accompaniment of music that was intended to stir their patriotic fervor. That is, I elaborated, the men stood in line outside a series of temporary operating facilities, inhaling the odor of antiseptic, while marching bands played on throughout the day and the night. The girl finally interrupted me to tell me that my subject was probably most interesting, but she couldn’t see how, since I didn’t seem to be paying attention to what I was saying and had the air of being elsewhere. I wanted to respond, “Do you have any idea what’s going on, you idiot? Marguerite is here!” Eventually, the poet understood what was going on. Out of the corner of her eye, she followed the progress of the woman walking toward us, then made a slight movement with her lips, as if to say, “O.K. I get the picture.” But I couldn’t have cared less what she thought. All my attention was focussed on the woman crossing the road. A cement-streaked truck was hurtling down the street with a great commotion. On it was written “Long Live the Five-Year Plan!” Marguerite finally reached the sidewalk where we were standing. She was wearing the same summer dress as the first time I’d seen her, and she blinked her eyes in a faraway manner that reminded me of a stork. Her hair was neatly coiffed, in a way that was neither traditional nor modern. She reminded me of Greta Garbo, but a Greta Garbo as seen through the prism of provincial boredom in Albania. Before she entered the fruit store, she noticed that I was watching her and gave me a gentle look, as if through a window. I thought I saw the gleam of a smile in her eyes; she looked like someone who knew a secret she wasn’t going to tell. Various thoughts raced through my mind like cars about to crash. Just as we had heard of her, she had likely heard of us—we young men who had recently returned from studying abroad and were now working for the newspaper at the Writers’ Union. She probably read books. How else would she spend her days while waiting for night to fall? Perhaps she was eager to know what the men of the younger generation were like—writers and artists who, unlike their predecessors, had learned not French or Italian but the languages of the East: Polish, Mongolian, Russian, Hungarian. Marguerite came out of the shop with a bag of apples in her hand. Perhaps she would share them with her client before the 3 A.M. coffee. . . . She gave me another gentle but brief glance, without any of the nuance I hoped to see in it. When she’d finally made it safely back to the other side of the road and disappeared into her little alley, I took a deep breath, as relieved as if I’d been leading her there on a leash. I believe I gave the poet a smile, but it was no doubt so insincere that she did not react. Her look made it clear that although my pedestal was still standing it might not be for long. Marguerite’s departure, however, had given me back my self-confidence, and I began once again to ramble on about the castration ceremony, which, as I described it, took place in iodine-scented barracks as a band played and Nasser, Tito, and even Chinese observers looked on. She listened to me attentively, but without the blind adoration she had shown earlier. My eyes wandered vaguely off toward the crossroads where Marguerite’s mauve toenail polish seemed to have left a dreamy hue. “Listen,” I said suddenly to the young poet, “did you ever happen to hear from your grandfather, for example, or from an uncle, about women of easy virtue—I mean, streetwalkers, though the term doesn’t really fit, since they almost never go out? What I mean is, have you heard of any women like that who have a select circle of clients? I mean, about how their clients contact them, and how . . .” I had to repeat the question several times before she understood what I was getting at. It was the first time I’d seen her frown, an expression that strangely suited her, and then she got angry. “What do you take me for?” she responded indignantly. I wanted to tell her that she had misunderstood, that I was asking about certain social conventions that interested me as a writer and journalist, but she was not listening anymore. She said goodbye and turned to leave just as a cement-streaked truck, no doubt the same one that had passed by earlier, made its way noisily up the road. The young poet did not look back the way she usually did whenever we parted. “Silly socialist-realist cow!” I said to myself and put her out of my mind. I decided that, no matter what it took, I had to go and see Marguerite. The decision seemed to take possession of my entire being, from my brain to the depths of my gut. Whenever one part of my body let up, another part would push me onward. And, to my surprise, it was not always the flesh that incited me. Unlike what we call love affairs, in which the preliminaries—the dates and the outings in parks and cafés, the writing of letters—are easy but the finale, the actual possession, is much less predictable, in this case the hardest, the almost impossible, thing was simply making contact. What I needed was an alternative map of Tirana, one that could show me the secret codes and addresses I had no way of uncovering. One evening, I drank a beer at the Barrel Bar with a colleague of mine from the editorial staff, the one who had first told me about M., as we now referred to her. Afterward, our steps led us inevitably toward where we believed her house to be. From Barricade Street we turned into Dibra Street, where I had carefully noted the entrance to the alley in which she and her dreamcolored toenails had disappeared. It was a quiet night, bathed in a faint moonlight that seemed to have been created just for such alleys as this, alleys at the heart of the city which seemed to lead a life of their own, away from the radiance of Socialism. We observed the wooden doorways with decorated lintels, and the little gardens behind them where persimmon trees grew. The houses had two stories, some with overhanging eaves, and most of the windows had flower boxes. Each time we saw a light shining in a window, we were convinced that it had to be Marguerite’s house. I slept badly that night. Bits and pieces of dreams, like debris through which I could barely make my way, left me more exhausted than a sleepless night would have. I woke up frequently, and almost every time I relived the same scene: I was walking down the abandoned little alley, this time as Marguerite’s client, looking for her doorway. I began to feel nervous. I wondered whether the alley was actually as removed from the rest of the city as I had imagined. Was it possible that the supposedly ubiquitous eye of the Sigurimi could have overlooked Marguerite and her visitors? Or was she perhaps part of its network of informers? It suddenly seemed crazily naïve to believe otherwise. This was almost enough to cool my passion, to make the mauve nail polish, the black garters, the coffee at 3 A.M., and the sound of the forbidden “Sir” lose their charm. Relieved, I fell asleep, only to wake up again an hour later as if a loud bell had rung. I abruptly recalled the words of my cousin who worked for the Ministry of the Interior: “You think we see everything? Let me tell you the truth. It’s exactly the opposite. We aren’t seeing shit. We were the ones who created this myth, in order to frighten everyone. And, surprisingly enough, it worked. If you only knew what is really going on in this country.” I weighed his words over and over, and my heart caught fire again. If you only knew what is really going on in this country. I was now sure that the most complicated thing going on in the country had to do with what lay between Marguerite’s legs. I persuaded myself that my fear of the Sigurimi was groundless. After all, even if Marguerite were discovered, the state would be perturbed to learn that some minister or general had been sleeping with her, but not particularly concerned about a young scribbler. Especially given the poetry this writer had published—he was clearly not someone to be taken seriously, and it would be no great scandal if he’d fallen for a whore. Almost spitefully, I recalled the manuscript of a novel I had written while studying in Moscow, and outlined my defense in front of an imaginary jury: “I have never concealed the fact that I am attracted by whores. Indeed, my first novel, which I am not able to publish because of you, is full of them. You can keep company with whomever you wish, with the ladies of the executive council of the Women’s Federation or with deputies from the Party Plenum, etc. As for me, I keep the company I deserve: that of whores.” The next morning, I had breakfast with my friend from the Union and told him what I had dreamed. We had a good laugh about it. Then he said that, all joking aside, I was quite right about one thing: there had been a certain political relaxation recently and such matters were no longer treated as they had been in the past. It was true. In fact, two weeks earlier, the Leader himself had surprised everyone by making that old-fashioned gesture, long forbidden in our country: he had kissed a woman’s hand. And he’d done it in public in front of the cameras, right in the middle of the People’s Assembly! That kiss on the hand of a representative of the Greek minority in parliament gave rise to a wave of enthusiasm among intellectuals: what a gentleman Comrade Enver was! Compared with him, not only Khrushchev and Gottwald but even Thorez, in Paris, looked like peasants. When I was watching the news that evening, I thought about the linguist E.Ç., who had had such problems because of the same gesture. Then it occurred to me that it was precisely because of E.Ç. that the Leader of the Party had remembered the custom. On the surface, my hypothesis seemed unlikely, but if you looked deeper it made sense. Sometime earlier, at a meeting with intellectuals, the Leader of the Party had praised E.Ç.’s work for the first time in seventeen years. In the days preceding the meeting, the Leader, looking for ways in which to initiate the thaw, would probably have asked to see the file on E.Ç., which most certainly contained multiple references to the famous kiss on the hand. Repressed jealousy, a copycat reflex, and nostalgia for the years he had spent in France—all inextricably mixed together—may have led the Leader, when the time came to signal the thaw, to mimic that kiss himself. I was convinced of this, just as I was convinced that frequenting Marguerite would not be nearly as dangerous now as it had been in the past. The thaw in the political climate was accompanied, strangely enough, by a closing of the borders. At Rinas airport, planes became increasingly rare. But because the cancelled flights were all coming from Eastern-bloc countries people hardly mourned them: “So there are fewer flights from the Soviet Union and East Germany. You call that bad news?” Although no one said so openly, many people dreamed of other, better flights coming in to replace those from the East. As air traffic decreased, there were also fewer citizens from other Socialist countries to be seen. We no longer knew what to think of the few who did turn up. Until then, we had been one big family, but now we were somewhat estranged. Marguerite remained apart from all these shakeups. Her body was and had always been more exotic than those of the Hungarians, the Russians, the Latvians, or the Jews with whom our generation had had contact. It belonged to a different galaxy, and dreaming of it was like crossing an abyss. The editorial staff of the literary newspaper occupied two rooms on the second floor of the Writers’ Union. In one of them, the smaller of the two, sat the editor-in-chief; in the other one were the journalists. From the widest of its three windows, one could look across the garden and down to the wrought-iron gate. The garden was beautiful, both on sunny and on rainy days, and the window was equally well suited for good moods and for morose ones. From this vantage point, we could see everyone who entered and left the building. Viewed from above, they all looked either a little crooked or comical, and, whether they were dawdling or hurrying, it was impossible to tell if they were going away satisfied or frustrated. The comings and goings were particularly frequent in the autumn, which was the season for sending delegations abroad. There were far fewer delegations this year than there had been in the past. Aside from China, the only possible destinations were, of course, Korea, Vietnam, Cuba, and a couple of African countries. The dispatch of a delegation to the Arbëresh, in Italy, was now as rare as the appearance of a comet in the sky. As I daydreamed, gazing down at the garden, which autumn had already laid bare, I found myself contemplating the dilemma that is often faced in fairy tales—of having to choose between two equally attractive wishes. In my case, the choice was between a trip abroad and a night with Marguerite. I would, of course, have chosen the former, but not without a certain quickening of the heart at the loss of the latter. Neither my colleague nor I had seen her again. We seemed incapable of finding the path that led to her house. Or had our subconscious slyly kept us from discovering it? After the November holidays, the winter got drearier and drearier, especially at the Writers’ Union. Nothing happened—at least, nothing that we’d hoped for. I had begun writing a novel with a title I very much liked, “The Bedridden Gypsy.” The problem was that, aside from the title and a bright idea that had cost me a sleepless night and seemed exceptionally innovative at the time, I had no clue what I was going to write about. The idea related to the rhythm of the narrative, which I had decided to adapt to the illness of the protagonist. In other words, when his temperature rose or his pulse raced, the rhythm would speed up accordingly. But when, for example, the Gypsy fell into a coma, the exact opposite would happen. And so it would develop, all in accordance with his fevers, his kidney stones, etc. I had written only the first chapter, in which the Gypsy was examined by a physician, and the beginning of the second chapter, in which he was waiting for the results of his tests. I had left off there because I could not decide what disease my Gypsy should have. My colleague, the only one with whom I had discussed my idea, had pointed out that this decision was crucial, since everything else in the novel would depend on it. If I was planning on a long novel, in two volumes, say, as had become fashionable lately, I would have to come up with some long-term wasting disease. For a short novel, on the other hand, the Gypsy would have to be afflicted with a malady that would take him to his grave in no time at all. As I agonized over this decision, I stopped writing—although this caused me to agonize even more. One day, my colleague announced that he had discovered how to get to M. The method for making contact with her was more or less what we had supposed it would be, but not quite as mysterious. The prospective client had to go to a neighbor of hers, who knitted sweaters and did alterations. There, he would mention a particular type of stitch that only Marguerite and her mother knew. The neighbor would then call the two women over to meet the client, or would take the client to their house. At that point, an arrangement might be made, and the date and the other conditions fixed. So that was how it worked. Marguerite could thus select her clients. We were excited, because we were sure that she would grant us a visa, so to speak. We were also pleased by the thought that we would each be getting a sweater knitted by her in the bargain—one for me with the two “X”s of the twentieth century on it, and one for my colleague with the symbol of his choice. Because work at the office continued to be as gloomy as it was wearisome, we often found ourselves dreaming of our “knitting afternoon,” as we referred to the visit to M.’s neighbor. In order to show that we were serious people, we decided, it would be best to wear ties and white shirts. This brought us around to the question of age. Because we feared being rejected as too young, we discussed different ways of combing our hair in order to look older. It occurred to us that we should perhaps wear hats or nonchalantly light up one of those cigars which were now being sold at Hotel Dajti. I also considered pulling out, as if by accident, the book of poems I’d published when I was studying in Moscow, whose foreword stated, in black and white, that I had been influenced by certain kinds of decadent literature. This option, although risky, seemed especially appealing. But, after our initial excitement wore away, we came to the conclusion that that might be a little too much. It was rather like mentioning rope in the house of a hanged man. Even conversation about Greta Garbo, the terrifying Kafka, or Benedetto Croce, which we had at first thought would be perfect, now began to seem inappropriate. We might give the impression that we were agents provocateurs or worse: candidates for prison. It would be better to let things develop by themselves. It was a cold day in March when the editor-in-chief, who had just returned from a meeting of the Central Committee, called us into his office. He had a sinister expression, and his words were equally spine-chilling. The Party had criticized the press and, in particular, the newspaper published by the Writers’ Union. There had also been criticism of the Writers’ Union itself, but this would be dealt with at a later meeting. For some time now, the Party had sensed a certain slackness in the newspaper, a decline in revolutionary fervor, and a passiveness that was at odds with the obligatory optimism of a Socialist society. The editor-in-chief provided a few examples and then turned to me: “Look here, in the foreign-affairs section you’re in charge of, there have been very few features on the achievements of literature and art in China, Vietnam, and Cuba, or on progressive revolutionary art around the world. Too much space has been taken up by articles, for example, on the death of the American writer Hemingway, not to mention rumors and allegations about the suicide of Marilyn Monroe. What I would like to know here is, what is your attraction, or, rather, obsession, with suicide? Even Mayakovski’s poem ‘Cloud in Trousers’ was published with a note announcing ‘the eve of the anniversary of the poet’s suicide.’ ” I did not know what to say. On any other occasion, I would have replied that we had always reported on the suicides and emotional crises of Western writers as manifestations of the crisis in capitalist society, etc. But I’d got myself in a muddle with Mayakovski, since he had taken his life under Stalin. The other sections of the newspaper were criticized as well: hermetic verse, frivolous short stories, reviews that seemed to deviate from the Party line. After the meeting, we returned to our office, hanging our heads. Later that day, we learned that similar meetings had been held everywhere: at the opera house, which was not far from our building; at the film studio; at the People’s Theatre; and, of course, at the publishing companies. An extraordinary assembly of the Writers’ Union was scheduled for the following week. Two days before the assembly, the head of the personnel division at the Writers’ Union called me in to answer questions about an official trip to Shkodër that I had taken sometime earlier. According to information that he had received from there, I had apparently frequented some decadent establishments. I jumped to my feet to protest this accusation, insisting that I did not know any prostitutes in Shkodër and, to prove my case, I added that I had jacked off at the hotel, despite the fact that the temperature in my room was well below zero. The chief of personnel listened to me with an ironic smile. “That’s enough,” he said finally. “Don’t bother getting on your high horse. Decadent establishments are not only whorehouses. But since you insist on an explanation, let me inform you that you were seen at a so-called ‘literary salon’ in Shkodër, one of those rat holes for the town’s aging Catholic bourgeoisie who yearn to turn back the clock.” I could not have been more astonished if someone had slapped me in the face. All my confidence dissipated. I had actually attended a literary gathering. A comic poet called Bik N., a delightfully silly person, had invited me, saying, “We are going to a literary salon this evening, one of those traditions that only our beloved Shkodër knows how to preserve.” I was fascinated to be able to visit an old Scutarine mansion, at the center of town, where everything was as it used to be: kilims in the living room, a fireplace and a brazier in Ottoman style, an icon of the Virgin in the corner, and, of course, the people. Aside from our host—whom everyone called Miss Bimbli although she was almost seventy, and who the clown Bik N. insisted was his lover—there was only a slender old woman, who didn’t say a word, and the blind poet Llesh Huta. After drinking tea and Cognac, Bik N. recited his latest sonnet, “Springtime in the Fall,” which was, of course, dedicated to the rejuvenation of Miss Bimbli, though no signs of revival could be seen in her well-nourished body. Then the blind poet read a poem, which was nothing like the sonnet. In fact, it was little more than an insulting tirade about a woman who had once rejected him. It ended with the line “You who couldn’t see how to love me, may you forever see less than I.” I remembered this in passing and must have blushed a bit, because the chief of personnel spoke up. “See how ashamed you are of yourself?” I endeavored to counter this by saying that the atmosphere might have been old-fashioned, but I had not sensed any nostalgia for the past nor had I heard any innuendos about the present. The chief of personnel shook his head and searched for something in the file in front of him. “It may look that way on the surface,” he said, “but you cannot know what they’re saying when your back is turned. In any case, it does not really matter what was or was not said that day. What matters is the general climate. Do you understand what I am saying? The Party has let it be known that there has been a decline in revolutionary fervor. And this is precisely what the enemy is waiting for: a relaxation on our part. So-called ‘humane’ behavior the enemy regards as weakness, and he’s looking to gain ground wherever we doze off. When the enemy sees that he has failed in overt action, he turns to covert methods: alcohol, women, music, religion, hermetic poetry, fashion. He has his eye on you—especially you young people who have just come back from abroad.” His eyes glowed like two lumps of coal, and I thought, Just wait. He’s going to bring up the introduction to my book, which mentions the decadent influence in my poetry. But, thank God, he said nothing about it. “There are no literary salons aside from the salons of the Party,” he continued. “Meetings, consultations with the working class, assemblies—these are the greatest salons art can know. Not those damp and dingy dumps. You get my meaning, son?” Rising to his feet to indicate that the meeting was over, he winked at me as he often did when he wanted to stress something: “Pay a little more attention to your writing, and listen to the advice given to you by our comrades from China. Do I make myself clear?” I nodded, quite bewildered by the flood of words and especially by the wink. “At the assembly the day after tomorrow, the comrades will speak out on these matters,” he said as I was leaving. “You young people will get a chance to have your say, too, I believe.” The assembly was held in one of the auditoriums of the Palace of Culture. In contrast to earlier occasions, the Party leaders taking part wore sombre expressions. And the text of the main speech was harsh indeed. With the country under bitter siege, at a time when the Albanian people and their Communist leaders were working and struggling to break through the blockade, the writers and artists of Albania were, alas, behaving in just the opposite manner. The jargon flowed on and on: alienation from the working masses, living in an ivory tower, bourgeois ways. “A tainted spirit that has nothing in common with Communist ideals is spreading in our midst,” the president of the Writers’ Union declared. Everyone was waiting for names to be called, and the tension in the auditorium became unbearable. Apparently, before getting to the names, however, the Party leaders had decided to list the sinful influences to which we had succumbed. Drunkards, sexual obsessives, homosexuals, moral and political pimps, gamblers, nostalgics, mystics, and hermetics were not only infiltrating our ranks but apparently using their influence to spread the afflicted spirit mentioned earlier. My heart was beating slowly. I had committed at least three of the sins the leaders were referring to—not to mention my preoccupation with suicide, which the editor-in-chief had recently denounced, and my obsession with black garters. The speaker, it seemed, had got too close to the microphone, so that when he said the word “shakeup” it generated a veritable tremor in the auditorium. “The Party is calling for a shakeup among writers and artists,” he repeated. “That is why this assembly has been convened. And that is what we have come here to discuss.” We pushed our way to the exits, bumping into one another like a bevy of the blind. The afternoon session was even more depressing. The first speakers outdid one another with bitter invective, ranting on and on about the tainted pride of intellectuals, their egotism, their thirst for praise, money, and excess. Before calling for the obligatory “shakeup,” one of the speakers shouted twice, “Shame on us!” The next speaker, finding nothing original to say, simply shouted, “It is time for another shakeup!” “How did we get ourselves into such a mess?” It was with these words, spoken in a trembling voice, that one of the veteran writers began his speech. Since the First World War he had been writing plays for children in which the forces of good always won in the end; this had insured his success through several regimes. We were the bottom of the barrel, the scum of the earth, he announced. At that moment, there was a small commotion at the entrance to the auditorium. The wife of the Great Leader had arrived to observe. I exchanged a fleeting glance with my colleague. After the veteran writer, it was the turn of a literary critic and then of the female poet to whom I had pontificated on the subject of Hindu castration some months earlier. The emotion in her eyes, her feverish tone implied a dangerous sincerity. “We, the writers of the younger generation, who are entering the world of literature with the purest of emotions, have been saddened by the behavior of our elders, but until now we failed to understand the origin of the spirit that had tainted them. This assembly has opened our eyes!” My heart missed a beat. Just wait till she mentions your name as an example, I thought, cursing myself. What an idiot I was, what an imbecile! Why had I insisted on telling my castration story to her? The young poet continued to speak with a steely resolve. “We young writers embarking on the road to literature are, indeed, naïve, especially we female writers, but there is nothing wrong with being naïve. What is wrong is when someone tries to take advantage of the gullibility of others.” I was flabbergasted. The silence in the auditorium became absolute. Because almost all the young writers at the Union had tried to get the girl into bed by offering to publish her poems, we were convinced that our names would be mentioned. I had not directly solicited her favors yet, but anyone who had overheard me speaking to her about castration would have been led to believe that it was just a prelude to seduction. The discussion became more and more aggressive. “What have we come to, comrades?” one of the women on the podium called out. “Others are doing great deeds on the work front, freezing in the snow, diving into the flames to save their comrades, while we are hanging around in the kitchen doing nothing.” The wife of the Leader nodded in approval, and several others on the podium followed suit. The room was filled with a heavy sense of guilt. Some of us were red-eyed. I thought I could hear a couple of people sobbing quietly. How could we cleanse ourselves of such enormous failings? Where was the way forward? As if reading our thoughts, the president of the Writers’ Union, before closing the meeting, tackled precisely this question. “It will help no one to sit around and weep. We must find a solution. The meeting is adjourned,” he declared. “The next session begins tomorrow morning at seven o’clock.” I exchanged another quick look with my colleague. An assembly at seven in the morning? No need for comment. Most of the writers and artists were already at the Palace of Culture when I arrived with swollen, sleepy eyes. It was six-thirty, but the glass doors were still locked. I looked around for my colleague, who was sneaking a smoke behind a column. “I got here at six o’clock,” he whispered. “I couldn’t get a wink of sleep. And there were other people here before me.” It was now seven. The opening time, which had seemed scandalously early the day before, now seemed scandalously late. The doors of the Palace of Culture finally opened and the people thronged in and assembled in a dignified silence. The members of the presidency sat down at their tables with equal dignity. The president opened the session by giving the floor to the Party secretary of the Writers’ Union. There was a certain optimism in his voice, but it conveyed absolutely no hope. On the contrary, it made us even more afraid. When the next speaker, turning to possible solutions, referred briefly to a “reduction of salaries,” the audience froze, but a second later I could sense some relief. So that is what they were building up to! Let them reduce the damn salaries, or even do away with them altogether—if only it will spare us this torture! We were all possessed by an unexpected euphoria. We were going to give up something that was synonymous both with pleasure and with vice. In other words, we would part with our salaries as we would part from a whore. Amid all the excitement, one writer who had only recently made a name for himself took to the podium and, in a loud voice, much more confident than those of the speakers of the previous day, proclaimed that, regardless of the decision the assembly might reach on the question of salaries, he intended to offer the government any proceeds he received for his forthcoming novel, which had just gone to press. The audience applauded, although the faces of the members of the presidium remained impassive. Now that the pressure was somewhat relieved, I felt a quickening in my heart again. Then for some reason, I don’t know why, I thought of Marguerite. She was no doubt still asleep, exhausted by a night of lovemaking. Under the pillow beside her, a client had left a thousand-lek bill. Oh, that pillow, where I had so often imagined leaving my own salary—which was, doubtless, what had made me think of her. There was silence in the auditorium once again. A militant poet with a grave expression on his face was giving a speech. His words were all the harsher because he stuttered. “We have spoken here of our novels and our poems, but I have heard no one refer to the most majestic of all poems, a poem that was composed recently here in Albania.” It took us a moment to realize that he was referring to a speech that the Leader had given in a town in the north of the country. We froze again. We had just managed to catch our breaths, and now the spectre of guilt returned, more sinister than ever! Icy and observant, the eyes of the Leader’s wife remained fixed on the auditorium. We could not make out what was expected of us. A clean-shaven novelist who rarely spoke at public meetings sought permission to take the floor right after the poet. Before he even got to the microphone, he let out a cry: “It’s now or never!” We could not believe our ears. He had always been a discreet person, and had in fact been criticized on several occasions for intellectual hermeticism. Now he, too, was calling for a shakeup, and in harsher terms than anyone had used yet. Among them, unexpectedly and irreversibly, like a dark cloud on the horizon, echoed the word “rotation.” So that was it! The Leader’s speech, the one that had just been reinvented as a poem—it, too, had spoken of “rotation.” The rotation in question, which we had lightheartedly assumed was intended for Party cadres and bureaucratic officials, was actually meant for us. This, and not a reduction of salaries or any other frivolous issue, was the heart of the matter. Slowly, everyone began to realize what was going on. It was an incredible week. There had never been so much coming and going at the Writers’ Union. From our office window we watched wet umbrellas being turned inside out by the wind. The president of the Writers’ Union and the Party secretary consulted with us one by one to find out where in the country we wanted to spend our period of rotation. They were convinced that, despite the unanimous vote for rotation, only a portion of the writers would actually be banished from the capital. The others would be thanked for their willingness to go but would be told that they were still needed in Tirana. During the interviews in the president’s office, the writers, after announcing which village or town they wished to go to in order to learn about real life, also took the opportunity to bring up the various personal problems that would make it impossible for them to leave their homes at the moment, in the hope that the Party would be generous and understanding. The personal issues that impeded the writers and artists from going away were quite astounding. It seemed inconceivable that such a quantity of vigorous, sunny works of art—the mellow harvest of Albanian socialist realism—could have been produced by people who were so ill and debilitated. Prostate problems, hemorrhoids, hernias, and nocturnal incontinence seemed harmless next to the more serious illnesses—running sores, pustules, buboes, scabies—unseen in Albania since the years of the Ottoman Empire. Those who came once often asked to be interviewed again. In the second session, they enumerated even more serious illnesses, which they had concealed during their first interview because of their “damn neo-bourgeois pride.” Some even undid their pants to prove that they had genital eczema, or an ulcerated scrotum, or some other horror. One man expounded on the problems of his wife’s infertility, broke into tears, and then revealed that she had been cheating on him with a neighbor. Another was being beaten by his son, and a third individual brought forth a document certifying that he was mentally ill. A rumor that the Western press had referred to the rotation of writers from the Albanian capital led to the hope that only a third of us would be banished. A second rumor, clarifying that it had been not the Western press but simply the Albanian émigré press, caused that hope to fade. Nonetheless, it was still generally believed that even in a worst-case scenario no more than half the writers would be expelled. But another rumor soon spread: neither the Western press nor the Albanian émigré press had written a word about the calamity that was about to befall Albanian writers and artists. Indeed, one émigré newspaper, not without a certain satisfaction, had let it be known that the whole thing would do Albanian writers good. This was the system they had clamored for; let them enjoy it to the fullest. By the end of the week, we had realized that it was pointless to swim against the tide. Everyone was to be rotated, even the president of the Writers’ Union. There was to be an endless convoy of known and lesser-known individuals, Communists and nonCommunists, people who had committed political errors and people who hadn’t, accompanied by those who were destined to commit errors in the future, those who would never commit errors, and even those who might possibly commit errors. The last people to be summoned to the office of the president of the Writers’ Union were those of us who worked there. The president looked calm, but the bags under his eyes were more ponderous than ever. He asked us to take a seat on the sofa. “Well, now it’s our turn,” he said freely. “I suppose you have heard. I’ll be going to Rubik, to live among the miners.” My colleague and I nodded to show him that we had been informed. As I listened to him speaking, I wondered why I had always avoided contact with this man. He had studied in France in the thirties, was always well dressed, often with a French beret and a pipe, like the French writers we had seen in photographs. I found all of this quite captivating and, in fact, two weeks earlier, on one occasion when I was daydreaming about Marguerite, I had thought of how wonderful it would be if he were to lend me his beret and pipe for my first visit to her. But from our very first meeting, when he’d invited me to have coffee with him, as he often did with newcomers to the Writers’ Union, I’d felt that close relations with him would be difficult. Despite the beret and the pipe, the conversation between us was stilted. I had the impression that this was my fault, but that only made me more nervous. I have never been much of a talker, but suddenly I was more tight-lipped than ever. Faced with my silence, he also became uneasy. His pipe went out several times, and he fiddled with it for a while, changing the tobacco. Then he asked me a second time about my studies at the Gorky Institute and told me a little about his younger days in France. Later, thinking over our meeting, I felt that I understood the source of our unease. This fellow had abandoned the West to adapt himself to the East. I, on the other hand, had just returned from the terrifying East, with an incipient desire for the other side. We were meeting at a crossroads known as Albania, each of us carrying signs pointing in the opposite direction. It was almost as if we were each saying to the other, “Where do you think you’re going, you poor fool?” He was destroying my dream, and I suppose that I was doing the same to his. It was obvious that we wouldn’t get along. “That’s it, boys,” he said now. I took a look at his beret and at the pipe that he had propped on a corner of his imposing desk. Even he didn’t seem to think that these things would save him this time. “That’s it, boys,” he repeated and shook our hands. “May fortune be with you wherever you go.” I had been in the little town of B. for a week. I was there in two capacities: first as a young writer getting to know life by going to the textile factory every day, and second as a journalist, a local correspondent for a weekly literary newspaper. The mornings I spent at the factory were pleasant enough. There were quite a few engineers and bookkeepers there who had just come from Tirana and who had done their studies in the East. They spent much of their time at the factory club, gulping down glass after glass of Cognac. I enjoyed their company from the first day. They were full of fun and were delightfully irreverent about everything. I was particularly fond of the way they addressed one another by nicknames related to the countries where they had studied. Taxh Paholl, who was the head of the group, was called Pan because he had been in Poland, and Liko Ibrahim they called Herr because he had studied in East Germany. I was the only one who had been in Moscow, but in their eyes, I don’t know why, Moscow was considered somewhat backward. Thrilled as I was by their company, I did nothing to defend the Russian capital, nor did I deny being involved in an especially backward field: literature. The only problem I had was keeping up with them in their drinking. This, at any rate, served to confirm their conviction that literature was behind the times. Rainy afternoons in the little town were particularly boring. The evenings were even worse, especially Saturday evenings, when my new friends the engineers were stuck in never-ending meetings. I was in no mood to write. The manuscript of my “Bedridden Gypsy,” which I had brought with me, remained untouched at the bottom of my suitcase. I sauntered up the main street to the only hotel in town, stopping at the cinema in the vain hope that they had changed the weekly film, and then strolled back down the street. Passersby were rare. The dingy restaurant where I had dinner was not yet open. Two sisters, who were considered to be of dubious moral character, owing to their weakness for men—especially for those who had just arrived from the capital—were walking arm in arm down the road, swinging their hips. Seeing them made me only more depressed. “Bloody fat-assed whore!” someone muttered from the sidewalk. The restaurant finally opened its doors. I took a seat in the corner and asked for one of the two dishes on the menu: meat stew with kidney beans. A man sat down beside me. “Go fuck yourself,” he shouted to someone, or perhaps to himself. He ordered a double raki, which he downed in one gulp. Why the hell am I here? I thought. I was relieved to get back out on the street. A light rain was falling. It was almost nine o’clock, but I didn’t see any of the engineers. My hope of lightening up the evening with a game of cards was diminishing bit by bit. Last Saturday, the engineers’ meeting had lasted until midnight. The two sisters were making their last rounds through town. As I passed them, sensing their longing for the big city, I was filled with a powerful feeling of superiority. If you country bumpkins only knew what I left behind! An intoxicating void opened up within me. If you only knew. But what was there to know? What had I really given up? To my surprise, what came to mind was not the smell of the mimosas on the Grand Boulevard, or the Café Flora, where I used to meet my friends, or the Art Gallery, or the Writers’ Union, or some love affair. Instead, I was reminiscing about an event that had never happened, a non-visit to a high-class whore named Marguerite. Perhaps it was because she shared a dubious moral character with those girls, or perhaps it was just the spiritual void in me, but the imagined event suddenly seemed real. I couldn’t interpret my own thoughts. More than any other symbol, it was a whore who made me feel that I was from the capital. I didn’t know whether to laugh or to cry. We rarely got to Tirana. When we did, we tried to maintain a low profile. In the press, Party leaders called on those in rotation to strengthen their attachment to their grass roots, i.e., the working masses, rather than yearning for the capital. We were all scared that our families—our only link to Tirana—would be banished, too. In the autumn, we were summoned to a meeting in the capital. This was the first time we’d all found ourselves together again. We stared at one another in amazement, as if we were discovering our own image in the mirror. We were not only thinner, we looked older, too. Our clothes didn’t fit us, our eyes had a servile tint, and our voices were rusty. We had come to the meeting with a certain hope: You, comrade writers and artists, who have now passed the test, have suffered more than you should have in the countryside. Return to the capital now with your heads held high! When we realized that the climate was exactly the opposite, we despaired. We were like mothers-in-law, unwanted, in the way. Not only was there no sympathy for us; the hostility toward us seemed to have blossomed. Those who had prepared speeches of veiled criticism stuffed them back into their pockets and proclaimed the opposite. They thanked the Party for having opened their eyes, and revealed their plans for the future. I was horrified to hear that two of the projects mentioned resembled my own: short stories with working-class protagonists, full of joy under a blue spring sky, with none of those clouds or that damn rain that had characterized my earlier attempts. Nobody knew anything about “The Bedridden Gypsy.” I was pretty sure I had kept quiet about it, although one evening at the Barrel Bar, as a few young poets and I were drinking and talking about literary innovation, I’d started boasting that they would be bowled over by the chapter of my new novel in which the Gypsy begins to scratch, and the sentences get so muddled as to confuse even a dermatologist. Despite all our promises to produce a more genuinely Socialist literature, the faces of the members of the presidium remained sombre. We realized why when one of them, the Secretary of the Party Committee for Tirana, took the floor. He stated that the Party remained dissatisfied with the country’s writers and artists. It had extended a loving hand to them, but they had not shown their gratitude. Two playwrights had once more written plays full of ideological errors. One novelist had blackened Socialist reality again in his latest work. The colors used by certain painters were decadent. This showed that the class struggle in the art world had to be intensified even further. Among the examples given was the linguist E.Ç. Instead of showing gratitude for the generosity of the Party and its Leader, who had forgiven his past transgressions and had sent him once again to a linguistics congress abroad, he had repeated his former error and had again kissed the hand of that female delegate from a hostile country. During the recess, while trying to find my colleague at the bar next to the auditorium, I made a surprising discovery. Not everyone was as depressed as I’d thought. There were even some smiling faces and merry voices. Who are all these unfamiliar people? I wondered. The new literary talents from the working class whom we had heard so much about lately? How could there be so many of them so fast? But it had to be that. I’d heard that, in such circumstances, the Sigurimi lost no time recruiting agents among the new writers, telling them, no doubt, “You are the future of literature! You are going to replace all those scoundrels the Party sent to study abroad and who returned full of vanity and corrupted by evil.” The more I observed them, the more I felt I was glimpsing covert and sarcastic smiles. Just when I thought I saw the young female poet among them, the bell announcing the start of the next session rang and everyone rushed for the doors. The meeting continued until midnight. The next day, before returning to B., I walked around Tirana for a few hours. The yellow leaves were falling en masse along the Grand Boulevard. The outdoor cafés were now closed, but, even shuttered, they filled me with nostalgia. I thought of that sad restaurant in B. where I would be having my miserable dinner in solitude and asked myself, What is this madness? The whole system came crashing down on me once again with a terrifying din. Why this never-ending lunacy? Why all the submissiveness and mute response? Not one voice of dissent, not one act of courage. We were disappearing just as silently as the yellow leaves of the Grand Boulevard. Just as inexorably. As I wandered along Elbasan Road, I heard a female voice calling me. It was the poet, who was waving at me from the other side of the street. We met. Unlike in our earlier encounters, everything about her now seemed assured: her deportment, her speech, her laugh. She must have felt a sense of superiority. In her eyes, I was nothing because I was languishing in the country. She would now have a wonderful opportunity to castigate me for the crazy stories I used to tell her. All this flashed through my mind, and I was numbed. But that silly cow was wrong if she thought she could mess with me! That I had fallen was obvious, but I now had one advantage over her: I no longer wanted to seduce her. “I thought you would be taking part in the discussions at the meeting yesterday,” I said. “Your speech last time was very good.” “Did you think so?” she replied, batting her eyes. I had the impression that all the confidence she had gained had suddenly melted away, only to be replaced by her former naïveté. “You know, there are still a lot of people out there throwing sand in the gears, and they never give up,” I continued. “You know what I heard today? Some fool who is setting up a condom factory had the gall to propose the name of our national hero Scanderbeg for the first Albanian-made condom.” She blushed, not knowing where to look. “I don’t understand all this nonsense,” she muttered. “How can they profane our national hero? Will they never learn?” “That’s exactly what I said when I heard about it. But he justified the name by saying that a condom had to be strong and resistant, and since there was no better symbol of resistance than Scanderbeg . . .” She continued to blush. Somewhat confused, she shook my hand and we said goodbye. For a moment, I watched her walking away, then I regretted the little trick I had played on her and headed off in the opposite direction. That afternoon, I took the train back to B. The first frost of the year was covering the fields, and I tried to concentrate on nothing at all. Just when I thought I had achieved this, my thoughts returned to the venomous accusation made by one high official: “We who made writers of you are the guilty ones!” In a moment of anger, they had let it be known what they really thought of us. Strangely enough, instead of being furious, I felt a sense of relief. Perhaps we were not actually writers but only writer-substitutes, just like the ersatz powder that had replaced coffee during the war years. Just like the hundreds of other cheap imitations we had got used to since then. The monotonous clanking of the train had almost put me to sleep. A cup of coffee at three o’clock in the morning tried to penetrate my dream, but didn’t succeed. Something was preventing it. The winter was more depressing than ever. It wasn’t just the damp and the chill that got to me. The long story I was writing seemed stillborn. Like someone who changes his religion, I had turned my back on the winter climate in order to worship at the altar of spring. But the old god reigned supreme and, insulted by my betrayal, he wreaked his vengeance upon me: I had a series of colds and bronchitis attacks, one after the other. The afternoons were interminable, as were the evenings, with the usual comings and goings of the two sisters, the freezing-cold restaurant, and the occasional game of cards before bed. But the engineers had been warned that it was not their job to organize social evenings. The news we received from the capital was distressing. There was no mention of the fate of Albanian writers in the international press, or even in the Albanian émigré press. The last private café in Tirana had been closed down. A new wave of rotations was being prepared for the end of December. One night, I woke up quite suddenly. I thought that someone had woken me, but there wasn’t a sound—no one was knocking at the door. Through the window, the full moon gave off a strange, harsh light, like glass, as if, inert for millions of years, it were now coming back to life. I went to the window and studied the sky. It was three in the morning. Without thinking about what I was doing, I began to get dressed. I opened the door quietly and tiptoed down the stairs. It was the first time that I had ever gone out alone at this hour of the night. The town stretched out before me, lifeless and glittering, like a tombstone. The moon was still bright, but it seemed friendlier now than it had in my room. I walked down the road toward a little stone bridge, which was silhouetted in white like an abandoned stage set. A sudden sense of lightness filled me, a drunkenness I had never experienced before. It was an unusual intoxication, the cause of which I couldn’t quite make out. It flitted through the recesses of my mind only to shy away again like a frightened doe. But the hope it left behind filled my chest with fresh air. The hard times we were going through would certainly end one day. The last café in Tirana may have been nationalized, but there were other emblems and symbols that would continue to resist and survive. I stopped short and asked myself, “But what emblems and what symbols?” I couldn’t think of any. But I was somehow aware of their existence, hidden in the fog, waiting for their time to come. People and places were perhaps just shadows, but behind them there were figures who were following other principles and codes. Yes, the last private café had been shut down, but at three in the morning one coffee was still being served, to someone still addressed as “Sir,” at Marguerite’s bedside. In a flash, I saw in my mind a flag being hoisted over the President’s residence, emblazoned with all sorts of symbols, from an eagle to a lady’s black garters. This chaotic vision slowly organized itself. There in Tirana, in the capital of the country of which I was a citizen, instead of a flag waving above the President’s house to show that the head of state was present, instead of the emblems of the Dukagjin, Kastriot, or Angevin dynasties, with all their white, black, and blue one-headed and bicephalous eagles, I saw a new symbol that coincidence had raised before my eyes: Marguerite’s black garters flying in the wind. All the tension in me melted away, and I returned to my room and my bed. I didn’t even have the strength to close the curtains and, as I was falling asleep, I felt the rays of the alabaster moon caress my face as if forming a death mask. I returned to Tirana two days before New Year’s. The city seemed alien and off kilter to me. I walked down a few side streets hoping to run into someone I knew, but encountered no one. Everyone was probably in hiding. I went to a post office I had never entered before and called my colleague, hoping that he, too, had returned to spend New Year’s with his family. At first his mother—I recognized her voice—told me that he wasn’t there. But when she realized who I was she called him to the phone. A little later, we were out on the street together in our long winter coats, panting in the cold and exchanging the latest news, primarily about banished colleagues and friends. “There is no sign of a thaw,” he said. “On the contrary.” As I was lighting a second cigarette, he asked me, “Did you hear what happened to Marguerite?” “No,” I replied. “What happened to her?” Quite a bit of time had passed since we’d spoken of her, and I had a bad premonition. “They expelled the two of them, mother and daughter,” he said. “They expelled everyone from Tirana whom they considered immoral: prostitutes, gamblers, homosexuals. But that’s not all,” he continued. “Their expulsion ended in tragedy.” “Tragedy? What do you mean? What tragedy?” “Marguerite and her mother,” he said. “They both committed suicide.” I was speechless, unable to react at all. Without waiting for me to question him, in a weary voice he told me what had happened. “The two of them were loaded onto a truck with all their baggage and sent to some backwater in the province of Lushnje. There they were told that they were going to be reëducated by working for a coöperative, and they were given a little cabin to live in. They didn’t say a word. They put their baggage in the cabin and went out that same afternoon to buy some things at the kolkhoz store. Apparently, they also bought some detergent and a rope. That evening, after they had finished dinner and had their coffee, they hanged themselves. Marguerite probably helped her mother before hanging herself.” As he spoke, I began counting the days, trying to figure out exactly when they had died. My brain went numb. I was convinced that they had killed themselves the very night I’d had my revelation in the moonlight. Yes, it must have been that night, as the full moon was spilling its light across all of narrow Albania, from west to east. I thought about the emaciated bodies of the writers in their loose shirts on the last day of meetings and how none of them had committed suicide. A woman had done it for all of us. Some mysterious thread linked the loose knots of our ties to her marble-white neck, which allowed me eventually, in my imagination, to hold the Albanian Union of Writers and Artists up to her naked body like a mirror. Soon thereafter, as if it could not withstand the reflection, the Writers’ Union moved its headquarters to Kavaja Street, where it has been ever since. Years later, as I stood in front of the modern building in the glass façade of which was reflected the Cathedral of Amiens, I thought about that woman in distant Tirana. I had long been preparing myself for this moment. Like everything that needs a soul to live, this dead building was making use of the cathedral’s outer shell. It changed its moods with the passage of hours and seasons. It was not the same at dawn and at nightfall, in April and in autumn or in winter. It opened and closed like a living organism. Any other house that stood opposite a building inhabited by poets and artists would have derived its light and soul from the latter. But in the case of the Writers’ Union it was Marguerite’s abandoned home that was the cathedral. It is difficult to imagine that, in her moments of quiet solitude, Marguerite ever took any comfort from Albanian literature. On the contrary, as a woman who had learned only to give, and who did so to the very end, she bequeathed something to it. This belated tribute is for you, Marguerite.
Pregnancy Diary December 29 (Monday): My sister went to the M Clinic today. Since she rarely goes to see anyone except Dr. Nikaido, she was nervous about the appointment. She’d put it off, worrying about what she should wear and how she should speak to the doctor, until it was the last day they’d be seeing patients this year. This morning, she was still fussing. “I wonder how many months of temperature charts I should show them?” She looked up distractedly from the breakfast table but made no move to get up. “Why not take all of them?” I answered. “But that’s two years’ worth,” she said, her voice rising as she churned her spoon in the yogurt. “Twenty-four charts, and only a few days that have anything to do with the pregnancy. I think I’ll just show them this month’s.” “Then what was the point of taking your temperature every day for two years?” “I can’t stand the thought of some doctor pawing through them right there in front of me, as if he were trying to find out every detail of how I got pregnant.” She studied the yogurt clinging to her spoon. It shimmered, viscous and white, as it dripped back into the container. “You’re making too big a deal out of it,” I said, covering the yogurt and putting it back into the refrigerator. “They’re just charts.” In the end, she decided to show the doctor all the charts, but it took her some time to find them. I’m not sure why, when she was meticulous about taking her temperature, she was so careless with the charts themselves. The sheets of graph paper, which should have been kept in her bedroom, would stray to the magazine rack or the telephone stand, and I’d suddenly come across them as I was flipping through the newspaper or making a phone call. I realize now that there was something odd about my finding these scraps of paper with their jagged lines and telling myself, “She must have ovulated then,” or “Her basal temperature was low this month.” My sister had chosen the M Clinic for sentimental reasons. I’d tried to get her to go somewhere bigger and better equipped, but she had made up her mind. “When we were kids, I decided that if I ever had a baby I’d have it there,” she said. The M Clinic was a small private maternity hospital that had been around since our grandfather’s day. When my sister and I were girls, we had often sneaked into the garden to play. From the front, the three-story wooden building was gloomy, with moss-covered walls, a half-faded sign, and frosted windows. But if you made your way to the garden around the back, it was bright and sunny. For some reason, this contrast thrilled us. There was a carefully tended lawn behind the building, and we loved to roll down it. As I rolled, glimpses of green grass and dazzling sky alternated in my vision, blurring to a pale turquoise. Then the sky and the wind and the earth would recede for a moment and I felt as if I were floating in space. I loved that moment. But our favorite pastime was spying on what was happening inside the clinic. Climbing on stacks of empty boxes that had once held gauze or cotton balls, we’d stare through the window into the examination room. “We’ll get in trouble if they catch us,” I said. I was always more timid than my sister. “Don’t worry, they won’t do anything. We’re just kids,” she’d say, calmly rubbing the glass with her sleeve to wipe away the condensation from our breath. As we pressed our faces up against the window, we could smell the fresh white paint inside. That odor, like an ache deep in my head, still reminds me of the clinic after all these years. The room was always empty at midday, before the afternoon appointments began, and we could study it to our hearts’ content. A collection of bottles arranged on an oval tray seemed particularly mysterious. They had no caps or seals, just glass stoppers, which I felt an irresistible urge to pull out. The bottles had been stained brown or purple or deep red by the fluids they held, and when the sunlight shone through them the liquid seemed to glisten. A stethoscope and some tongs and a blood-pressure cuff lay on the doctor’s desk. The thin, twisting tube, the dull silver fittings, and the pear-shaped rubber bulb of the cuff made it look like a strange insect nestled among the other instruments. There was an odd beauty in the unintelligible letters printed on the medical charts. A poster on the wall read, “Position for use in treating breech presentation.” In the picture, a woman was on her knees with her chest pressed against the floor. She was wearing a leotard that was so tight she looked naked. She lay there in the yellowed poster, staring vacantly into the distance. Then the chimes from a school somewhere in the neighborhood would start ringing, telling us that it was time for the afternoon examinations. We knew that we had to leave when we heard the nurses coming back from lunch. Sometimes women would be looking out of the windows on the third floor. They had likely just given birth. They had on thick bathrobes and their hair was tied back in ponytails. None of them wore makeup. Wisps of hair floated around their temples, and their faces were expressionless. I wondered why they didn’t seem happier at the prospect of sleeping above an examination room full of such fascinating objects. My sister came back before noon, and I found her in the front hallway just as I was getting ready to leave for work. “What did they say?” “I’m in the second month—exactly six weeks.” “Can they really tell that precisely?” “They can when they have all the charts,” she said, pulling off her coat and hurrying past me. She didn’t seem especially excited by the news. “What’s for dinner?” “Bouillabaisse,” I said. “The clams and squid were cheap.” She had changed the subject so quickly that I completely forgot to congratulate her. But, then again, I wasn’t quite sure that congratulations were appropriate for a baby who would be born to my sister and her husband. I looked up “congratulate” in the dictionary: it said “to wish someone joy.” “That doesn’t mean much,” I muttered, tracing my finger over a line of characters that held no promise of joy themselves. December 30 (Tuesday), 6 weeks + 1 day: Since I was a little girl, I’ve disliked the thirtieth of December. I could always get through the thirty-first by telling myself that the year was finally over, but the thirtieth was confusing somehow, neither here nor there. Cooking the traditional New Year’s dinner, cleaning the house, shopping—none of my tasks were completely done. When my father and mother got sick and died, one right after the other, my ties to the New Year’s season became even more tenuous. Nor did that change when my brother-in-law came to live with us. Still, breakfast this morning was a bit more relaxed than usual, since I didn’t have classes and my brother-in-law’s office was closed for the holiday. “When you haven’t had enough sleep, even the winter sun seems too bright,” he said, squinting behind his glasses as he lowered himself into a chair. The light shining in from the garden fell on the table, and our three pairs of slippers cast long shadows across the floor. “Were you out late?” I asked. He’d gone to the year-end party for the dental office where he works, and I must have been asleep by the time he got home. “I caught the last train,” he said. As he picked up his cup, a sweet smell wafted across the table. He puts so much cream and sugar into his coffee that the kitchen smells like a bakery at breakfast. I’ve often wondered how someone who makes bridges and dentures for a living can drink such sweet coffee without worrying about cavities. “The last train is worse than the rush-hour ones,” he added. “It’s always packed, and everyone’s drunk.” My sister scraped her butter knife over her toast. Since her visit to the gynecologist yesterday, her pregnancy is now official, but she doesn’t seem any different. Usually the least little thing—her favorite hair salon closing, the neighbor’s old cat dying, a water-main break—is enough to get her completely agitated and send her running to see Dr. Nikaido. I wonder how she broke the news to her husband. I don’t really know what they talk about when I’m not around. In fact, I don’t really understand couples at all. They seem like some sort of inexplicable gaseous body to me—a shapeless, colorless, unintelligible thing, trapped in a laboratory beaker. “There’s too much pepper in this,” my sister muttered, sticking her fork into her omelette. Since she always has something to say about the food, I pretended not to hear her. Half-cooked egg dripped from the end of her fork like yellow blood. My brother-in-law was eating slices of kiwi. I can’t stand kiwi—all those seeds make me think of little black bugs, and the kiwi this morning was particularly ripe and soft. Beads of sweat had collected on the surface of the butter. Apparently, neither of them was anxious to bring up the subject of the pregnancy, so I didn’t mention it, either. Birds were singing in the garden. A few wisps of cloud dissolved somewhere far off in the sky. The clatter of dishes alternated with the sound of chewing. None of us seem to have realized that the year is almost over. There are no pine branches decorating the door, no black beans or mochi in the house. “I suppose we should at least do the cleaning,” I said, as if talking to myself. “You shouldn’t overdo it in your condition,” my brother-in-law said, turning to my sister as he licked the kiwi juice from his lips. It’s just like him to say the most obvious thing as if it were a profound truth. January 8 (Thursday), 7 weeks + 3 days: Her morning sickness has started. I had no idea it came on so suddenly. She’d been saying all along that she wouldn’t have it, that she hates that sort of cliché. She’s convinced, for instance, that hypnosis or anesthesia would never work on her. But we were eating macaroni and cheese for lunch when she suddenly held up her spoon and began staring at it. “Does this spoon look funny?” she asked. It seemed perfectly normal to me. “It smells weird,” she said, her nostrils flaring. “Weird how?” “I don’t know . . . like sand. Did you ever fall over in the sandbox when you were little? Like that, dry and rough.” She set the spoon back on her plate and wiped her mouth. “Are you done?” I asked. She nodded and then rested her chin on her hands. The kettle began to whistle on the stove. She looked at me but said nothing, so I went on with my lunch. “Doesn’t the sauce on the macaroni remind you of digestive juices?” she murmured. I ignored her and took a sip of water. “So warm and slimy? The way it globs together?” She bent forward and peered at me, her head cocked to one side. I tapped the end of my spoon on my plate. “And the color, does it look like lard? The noodles are strange, too. The way they squish when I bite into them makes me feel like I’m chewing on intestines, little slippery tubes full of stomach juices.” As I watched these words dribble out of her mouth, I fingered my spoon and thought how sad it was to see her like this. She went on talking until she had nothing else to say and then rose to go. The macaroni was a cold white lump on her plate. January 28 (Wednesday), 10 weeks + 2 days: Her morning sickness is getting worse. She seems convinced that it will neither get slowly better nor disappear completely, and that depresses her. At any rate, she can’t eat anything. I’ve suggested just about every food imaginable, but she refuses everything. I even got out all the cookbooks in the house and went through them with her, but it didn’t help. I realize now that eating is actually an extremely delicate undertaking. Still, her stomach is so empty it must ache, and she finally said that she needed to “put something in her mouth.” (She couldn’t bring herself to say “eat.”) She decided on a croissant. A waffle or some potato chips might have done just as well, but a croissant left over from breakfast happened to be peeking out of the bread basket. She tore off a piece, forced it into her mouth, and swallowed it almost without chewing. Then, to wash it down, she took a tiny sip from a can of sports drink, grimacing with disgust as she swallowed. It didn’t seem like eating at all, more like some magic rite or ritual. My brother-in-law has been bringing home articles that he thinks will help: “How I Beat Morning Sickness” or “What Fathers Can Do for Morning Sickness.” It’s hard to believe, but the pregnancy seems to be affecting his appetite as well. At the table, he just pokes at his food and barely eats anything. “I can’t eat when she’s feeling so bad,” he says, sighing. She seems to think that he’s acting this way just to be nice, but I’ve noticed that when he’s massaging her back while she forces down a croissant he gets terribly pale and clutches his other hand to his mouth. They huddle together like a pair of injured birds and shuffle off to their bedroom, not to be seen again until morning. My brother-in-law seems particularly pitiful to me, since he has no reason to feel sick, and I find myself getting angry over his little sighs and whimpers. It occurs to me that I’d fall in love with the kind of man who could put away a three-course French dinner even when he knew I was paralyzed by morning sickness. February 6 (Friday), 11 weeks + 4 days: I eat all my meals alone now. I take my time, looking out at the flower beds or the shovel abandoned in the garden or the clouds floating by. I enjoy these quiet moments, and sometimes I even have a beer at lunch or smoke a cigarette, which my sister hates. I’m not lonely. Eating by myself seems to suit me. But this morning, as I was frying some bacon and eggs, she came running down the stairs. “What’s that awful smell?” she screamed, tearing at her hair. “Can’t you do something?” She seemed ready to burst into tears. The bare feet protruding from the legs of her pajamas looked icy and as transparent as glass. She switched off the burner, nearly ripping the knob from the stove. “It’s just bacon and eggs,” I whispered. “Then why is the whole house filled with that disgusting smell? Butter, grease, eggs, pork—I can’t breathe!” Putting her head down on the table, she began to sob. I didn’t know what to do, so I turned on the exhaust fan and opened a window. By this time, she was crying in earnest. It was remarkable to watch, almost like a scene from a play. Her hair hung down over her face, and her shoulders heaved. I put my hand on her back to comfort her. “You have to do something!” she said between sobs. “When I woke up my whole body was filled with that awful stench. It’s in my mouth and my lungs. My insides feel like they’re coated with it.” “I’m sorry,” I said timidly. “I’ll try to be more careful.” “It’s not just the bacon and eggs. It’s the frying pan and the dishes, the soap in the bathroom, the curtains in the bedroom—everything stinks. It’s spreading all over the house, like a giant amoeba eating up all the other odors around it, on and on forever.” She sat there weeping, her tear-covered face resting on the table, and I stood, my hand still on her back, studying the check pattern on her pajamas. The motor on the exhaust fan sounded louder than usual. “I know, I know,” I murmured. I took a deep breath, but I couldn’t smell anything at all. Just the kitchen in the morning. The coffee cups were lined up neatly in the cupboard. The white dishtowels were drying on the rack. A patch of frozen blue sky was visible through the window. I have no idea how long she cried. It might have been only a few minutes, but it seemed much longer. In any case, she cried until she couldn’t cry anymore. Then she let out a long, slow breath and looked up at me. Her cheeks and eyelashes were damp with tears, but her expression was calm. “From now on, I won’t use the kitchen when you’re here,” I said. She nodded. My cold bacon and eggs lay quietly in the pan. February 10 (Tuesday), 12 weeks + 1 day: Twelve weeks—and the morning sickness is as bad as ever. It clings to her like a wet blouse. Which may be why she went to see Dr. Nikaido today. Her nerves and her hormones and her emotions seem all out of whack. As she always does before these visits, she spent a long time deciding what to wear. She lined up all her coats and skirts, her sweaters and scarves on the bed and studied them carefully. She also spent a lot of time on her makeup. I worry that all this fuss will make my brother-in-law jealous. The morning sickness has made her hips narrower, her cheeks a little sunken, and her jaw more defined; she’s prettier than ever. You’d never guess that she was pregnant. I met Dr. Nikaido once, when he brought her home during a typhoon. He’s a middle-aged man with an unremarkable face and he made no impression on me at all. In fact, afterward I couldn’t recall a single feature—thick earlobes, for example, or strong fingers—nothing. He just stood quietly behind my sister, looking down at the ground. Perhaps because his shoulders and hair were wet from the rain, he seemed terribly sad. I don’t really know what kind of therapy he practices, but my sister has mentioned psychological tests and medication of some sort. In any case, she’s been going to see him since she was in high school, more than ten years now without a break, but I can’t see that she’s got any better. Her emotional problems seem to come in waves, like seaweed tossed around in the ocean, and she’s never found a safe shore to rest on. Still, she told me that she feels much better when she’s at his office. “It’s like when they’re shampooing your hair at the salon,” she said. “The feeling that someone’s taking care of you—it’s wonderful.” Her eyes narrowed with pleasure at the thought of him. But it’s hard for me to believe that Dr. Nikaido is a good psychiatrist. As he stood mutely in the doorway on the night of the typhoon, he looked more like a frightened patient than a doctor. The sun had set and a golden moon had risen in the darkness, but she still hadn’t come home. “She shouldn’t be out in this cold,” my brother-in-law muttered. When a taxi finally stopped at the gate, he hurried out to meet her. Her eyes glistened as she unwound her scarf, and she seemed much calmer than she was this morning. But no matter how often she goes to see Dr. Nikaido her morning sickness is as bad as ever. March 1 (Sunday), 14 weeks + 6 days: It suddenly occurred to me that I haven’t been thinking about the baby. I suppose I should be wondering whether it’s a boy or a girl, what they’ll name it, what sort of baby clothes to buy. I imagine people usually enjoy thinking about those kinds of things. But my sister and her husband never talk about the baby in front of me. They act as if there’s no connection between the pregnancy and the fact that there’s a baby in her belly. Which may explain why it has no concrete existence for me. At the moment, I use the word “chromosome” to help me remember that there’s actually a baby in there. “Chromosome” helps me give it some kind of form. I once saw a picture of chromosomes in a science magazine. They looked like pairs of butterfly cocoons lined up in a row. They were oblong, and just the right size and shape to pinch in your fingers. The pairs were all different: some were curved at the ends like a cane, others were perfectly straight and parallel, and others were backed up against each other like Siamese twins. When I think about my sister’s baby, I count off those twin cocoons in my head. March 14 (Saturday), 16 weeks + 5 days: She hardly looks pregnant at all, even though she’s entering her fifth month. For weeks now, she’s consumed nothing but croissants and sports drinks, and she’s losing a lot of weight. Except for her visits to the clinic and to Dr. Nikaido, she stays in bed all day, as if she were seriously ill. About the only thing I can do for her is avoid creating any kind of odor; so I’ve changed every bar of soap in the house to an unscented brand, and I took the paprika and thyme and sage from the spice rack and put them in a tin. I moved all the makeup that was in her room to mine, and, since she’d started complaining about the smell of the toothpaste, my brother-in-law went out and bought a waterpick. Needless to say, I try not to cook when she’s around. But, if I absolutely have to make something, I take the rice cooker or the microwave or the coffee grinder out to the garden and spread a mat on the ground. It’s peaceful eating outside by myself, looking up at the night sky. The evenings are warmer now that spring is almost here, and the air feels soft. My hands and feet pressed against the mat are dull and numb, but everything else—the crape myrtle, the bricks lining the flower beds, the twinkling stars—is sharp and clear. Except for a dog barking in the distance, the evening is perfectly still. I plug the rice cooker into the extension cord I’ve strung out from the kitchen, and within a few minutes a cloud of steam rises from the vent and vanishes into the darkness. A packet of instant stew warms in the microwave. From time to time, a light breeze blows, rustling the leaves and carrying away the vapor. I eat more slowly when I’m in the garden. The cups and dishes set out on the mat are all at slightly different angles. As I serve myself the stew, being careful not to spill it, I feel as though I were playing house. A faint light is burning in my sister’s window on the second floor. I think about her, curled up in bed, surrounded by all those odors, and then I open my mouth wide to take in the darkness with my bite of stew. March 31 (Tuesday), 19 weeks + 1 day: I got up early today, since the supermarket I had to go to for my part-time job was quite far away. It was foggy, and my eyelashes were cold and damp by the time I reached the station. The job suits me because my boss always sends me to a different supermarket in an unfamiliar part of town, and I never go to the same place twice. The supermarket is usually situated on a little plaza in front of a train station, with a pedestrian crossing, bicycle racks, and a bus terminal nearby. As I watch people come into the store, I feel as though I’d gone away somewhere on a trip. At the service entrance, I flash my ID card from the employment agency and the guard nods gruffly. It’s depressing in the back, with boxes and wet sheets of plastic and bits of vegetable littering the floor. The fluorescent lights are dim. I wander through the store with my bag full of equipment, looking for the best place to set up. Today, I chose a spot between the meat counter and the frozen-food cases. First, I made a stand by stacking some boxes from the storeroom. Then I covered it with a floral-print tablecloth and set out a plate. I put crackers on the plate, took my electric beater from the bag, and began whipping the cream. The store had just been renovated, so the floor was spotless and everything seemed to shine. I spooned little dabs of whipped cream onto the crackers and offered them to customers as they passed by. I always repeat the sales pitch exactly as it’s printed in the manual from the agency: “Please try some. It’s on sale today. What could be better with your favorite homemade cake?” I rarely say anything else. All sorts of people passed by my stand—a lady in sandals, a young man in a sweatsuit, a Filipino woman with frizzy hair. Some of them took a cracker from my plate and ate it. Some walked by with a skeptical look, and others put a carton of cream into their basket without saying anything. I gave them all the same smile. My salary has nothing to do with how many cartons I sell, so it seems easiest to be pleasant to everyone. The shoppers passed by me, baskets in hand, as if bobbing along on a stream of groceries. It occurred to me that almost everything in the store was edible, and this seemed sinister. There was something disturbing about so many people converging on one spot in search of food. And then I remembered my sister, and the way her sad eyes stared at a tiny morsel of croissant, how she seemed on the verge of tears as she swallowed and white crumbs scattered forlornly across the table. April 16 (Thursday), 21 weeks + 3 days:My sister put on a maternity dress for the first time today. Her belly suddenly seemed larger, but when she let me touch it I could tell that it hadn’t changed. I found it difficult to believe that there was a living being there under my hand. She seemed to be having a hard time getting used to the dress and kept fiddling with the ribbon around her waist. But her morning sickness has vanished, ending just as abruptly as it began. Since the nausea started, she’d avoided the kitchen completely, so I was puzzled when I found her leaning against the counter this morning, after saying goodbye to her husband. Because we haven’t been cooking, the kitchen was spotless. Every utensil had been put away, the counter was clean and dry, and the dishwasher was empty. It seemed cold and forbidding, like a showroom. She looked around for a moment and then sat down at the table. Normally, it would have been cluttered with bottles and containers we’d forgotten to put away, but today there was nothing on it. She looked up at me as if she had something to say. The hem of her dress swirled around her ankles. “Would you like a croissant?” I said, trying to be as discreet as possible. “Please don’t even say that horrible word,” she said. I nodded obediently. “But I would like to try something else,” she continued, almost whispering. “Sure,” I said. I hurried to the refrigerator, realizing that this was the first time in weeks that she’d expressed any interest in food. But there was absolutely nothing in there, just a bare light bulb illuminating the emptiness. I closed the door with a sigh and went to look in the pantry, but there was nothing there, either. “Don’t you have anything?” she said, sounding worried. “Let’s see,” I said, sorting through the bags and cans and jars. “There’s a little gelatin, half a sack of flour, some dried mushrooms, red food coloring, yeast, vanilla extract. . . .” I came across two leftover croissants, but I quickly put them back. “But I want to eat something,” she said, as if making a momentous decision. “Hold on. There must be something around here.” I checked the pantry again, shelf by shelf. At the very bottom, I found some raisins we’d once bought for a cake. The date on the box said that they were more than two years old, and they were as dried out as a mummy’s eyeballs. “How about these?” I asked, pushing the bag toward her. She nodded. It was strange to watch her eat something so hard with such a satisfied expression. Her jaw worked quickly as she took handful after handful from the bag. Her whole mind and body seemed to be concentrated on eating. When she came to the last few raisins, she let them rest on her palm for a moment, studying them lovingly before slowly putting them into her mouth. That was when I understood that her morning sickness was gone. May 1 (Friday), 23 weeks + 4 days: In the past ten days my sister has gained back the ten pounds she lost during fourteen weeks of morning sickness. Now she seems to have something edible in her hand at every waking moment. If she’s not at the table for a meal, she’s clutching a bag of pastries, or looking for the can opener, or poking around in the refrigerator. It’s as if her whole being had been swallowed up by her appetite. She eats all the time, almost as a reflex, like breathing. Her eyes are clear and expressionless, fixed somewhere off in space. Her lips move vigorously, like the thighs of a sprinter. But for me very little has changed; it’s just like when she was sick all the time—all I can do is sit back and watch. May 28 (Thursday), 27 weeks + 3 days: The more my sister eats, the more her belly grows. The swelling starts just below her breasts and continues down to her lower abdomen. When she let me touch it, I was surprised at how hard it was. And it isn’t perfectly symmetrical; it lists slightly to one side. That, too, was something of a shock. “This is about the time that the eyelids separate,” she told me. “If the fetus is a boy, the genitals are starting to descend from the abdominal cavity.” Her tone, as she described the baby, was cool. And there was something disturbing about the words she used—“fetus,” “genitals,” “abdominal cavity”—something that seemed inappropriate for an expectant mother. As I watched her belly, I wondered whether the chromosomes in there were normal, whether the cocoons were wriggling somewhere deep inside her. There was a little accident at the supermarket where I was working today. One of the stock boys slipped on a piece of lettuce and broke a whole cart full of eggs. It happened right next to where I was doing my demonstration, so I saw it all at close range. There were broken eggs and slimy smears of yellow all over the floor. The tread mark from the boy’s sneaker was still visible on the lettuce leaf. And several cartons landed in the fruit section, covering the apples and melons and bananas with dripping egg white. After the accident, the manager gave me a big bag of grapefruits that he said he couldn’t sell, and I was happy to take them home since there never seems to be enough food at our house these days. When I put them out on the table in the kitchen, I noticed that they still smelled slightly of egg. They were big yellow grapefruits, imported from America, and I decided to make them into jam. It was hard work peeling them all and getting the fruit out of the sections. My sister and her husband had gone out for Chinese food. Night was falling, and the house was silent except for the occasional tapping of the knife against the pot, a grapefruit rolling across the table, or my quiet cough. My fingers were sticky from the juice. The light in the kitchen illuminated the grainy pattern of the fruit. The grapefruits became even shinier when the sugar I had sprinkled on them dissolved. I dropped the pretty, crescent-shaped sections into a pot, one after another. The thick rinds strewn across the table were somehow comical. I cut the pith away and shredded the zest before dropping it into the pot. Yellow juice spurted everywhere, covering the knife, the cutting board, my hands. The zest, too, had a neat, regular pattern, like a human membrane seen under a microscope. Finally, I turned on the stove and sat down to rest. The sound of simmering grapefruit drifted out into the night. Clouds of sour steam billowed from the pot. As I watched the fruit dissolve, I remembered a meeting that some fellow-students had dragged me to a few months earlier. The title of the program was “Pollution: Our Earth, Our Bodies.” There weren’t many people there, but they seemed a sincere little group. As an outsider, I sat at a desk in the corner and stared out the window at a row of poplars lining the quadrangle. A thin woman wearing old-fashioned glasses made a presentation about acid rain, and then there were several complicated questions. As I pretended to listen, I fidgeted with the pamphlet they had handed to me on the way in. On the first page, there was a picture of an American grapefruit with a caption in bold print: “Beware of imported fruit! Antifungal P.W.H. is highly carcinogenic and has been shown to destroy human chromosomes!” That caption came back to me now in the kitchen. The fruit and rind had dissolved into a smooth liquid dotted with little gelatinous lumps, and I had just turned off the stove when my sister and her husband came home. She came straight into the kitchen. “What is that incredible smell?” she said, peering into the pot. “Grapefruit jam—how wonderful!” She had barely finished speaking before she had a spoon in her hand and was scooping up the hot jam. Still clutching her handbag, in her new maternity dress and best earrings, she stuffed the spoon into her mouth. Her husband stood watching from the doorway. She ate spoonful after spoonful. Her protruding belly made her look almost arrogant as she stood there by the stove, pouring the sticky globs of fruit down her throat. As I studied the last puddles of jam trembling slightly at the bottom of the pan, I wondered whether P.W.H. would really destroy chromosomes. June 15 (Monday), 30 weeks + 0 days: Monsoon season has started and it’s been raining almost every day. It’s dark and gloomy, and we have to keep the lights on all the time. The sound of the rain echoes constantly in my ears, and it’s so cold that I’ve started to wonder if summer will ever come. But there has been no change in my sister’s appetite, and fat is beginning to accumulate in her cheeks and neck, her fingers and ankles. Thick, soft fat. I feel a little disoriented every time I see her like this. Her whole body is swelling before my eyes like a giant tumor. And I’m still making my jam. Grapefruits are piled all over the kitchen—in the fruit basket, on the refrigerator, next to the spice rack. I peel them, dig out the fruit, sprinkle it with sugar, and simmer it gently over a low flame. Then, before I can get the jam into a bowl, she eats it. She sits at the table, cradling the pot in her arm and working her spoon. She doesn’t bother to spread it on bread or anything else. From the motion of the spoon and the movement of her jaw, you’d think she was eating something hearty and nourishing, like curry and rice. It’s a strange way to eat jam. The acid odor of the fruit mixes with the smell of the rain. She hardly seems to notice me, but I sit there anyway and watch her eat. “Won’t you upset your stomach if you eat too much?” I murmur. Or, “Haven’t you had enough?” Still no response. My voice is drowned out by the sound of the jam dissolving on her tongue or the drumming of the rain. Finally, when she has licked the last spoonful clean, she glances up at me with a sweet, dreamy look. “Is there any more?” she murmurs. “I’ll make more tomorrow,” I say, my voice flat and expressionless. And then, when I’ve cooked every last grapefruit in the house, I buy a new bag at the supermarket where I go to work. I always make sure to ask the man in the fruit department whether they’re imported from America. July 2 (Thursday), 32 weeks + 3 days: It’s almost the ninth month already. My sister came home from the M Clinic today looking a bit depressed. It seems that they warned her about gaining too much weight. “I had no idea the birth canal could get fat,” she said. “They said that women who put on too much weight can have difficult deliveries.” She seemed irritated as she pulled out the notebook she’d been using to keep track of the pregnancy. I could see that someone had written “Weight restriction” in bright red letters on one page. “They told me that I should only gain about twenty-five pounds by the end of the pregnancy. No doubt about it, I’m in trouble.” She ran her hand through her hair and sighed. She has already gained close to forty-five pounds. “I don’t suppose there’s anything you can do about it,” I muttered, glancing at her swollen fingers as I headed into the kitchen to make more jam. Because, without my really thinking about it, making grapefruit jam has become something of a habit. I make it and she eats it, as easily and naturally as you brush your hair when you get up in the morning. “Are you really afraid of having a difficult delivery?” I asked, without looking up from the counter. “Of course,” she said, her voice thin and faint. “These past few days I’ve been thinking a lot about pain—trying to imagine the worst pain I’ve ever felt, whether labor pains are more like terminal cancer or like having both legs amputated—that sort of thing. But it’s pretty hard to visualize pain, and not much fun trying.” “I can imagine,” I said, peeling fruit. She was clutching her notebook. The picture of a baby on the cover was warped and the child seemed to be crying. “But it’s even more frightening to think about meeting the baby,” she said. Her gaze dropped to her swollen belly. “I just can’t believe that this thing in here is really my baby. It still seems so vague and abstract. But I know there’s no way I can escape it. In the morning, when I’m just waking up, there’s always a moment when I’m sure that it’s all a dream—the morning sickness, the clinic, this belly, everything. It makes me feel wonderfully free. But then I look down at myself and I know it’s real. I’m filled with sadness, and I realize that what scares me most is the thought of meeting my own baby.” I listened without turning to look at her. Lowering the heat on the stove, I stirred a big spoon through the pot. “It’s nothing to be afraid of. A baby is just a baby. They’re soft and cuddly, with little curled-up fingers, and they cry a lot. That’s all.” I stared down at the jam curling around the spoon. “But it’s not that simple. Once it’s born, it’s mine whether I want it or not. And there’s nothing I can do about it, even if it has a birthmark covering half its face, or its fingers are stuck together, or it has no brain, or it’s Siamese twins. . . .” She went on for some time listing awful possibilities. The spoon made a dull sound scraping the bottom of the pan as the jam began to congeal. I stared into the pot, wondering how much P.W.H. it contained. Under the fluorescent light, the jam reminded me of a chemical, something in a clear bottle, perfect for dissolving chromosomes. “It’s done,” I said. Gripping the handles of the pot, I turned to face her. “Here, have some.” I held it out to her and she looked at it for a moment. Then, without another word, she started to eat. July 22 (Wednesday), 35 weeks + 2 days: I’ve tried to think of the baby as something positive for my sister and her husband, and for me. But I never quite manage. I just can’t imagine the look in my brother-in-law’s eyes when he holds the baby in his arms, or the whiteness of my sister’s breasts when she’s nursing it. All I see is that photograph of chromosomes I once found in a science magazine. August 11 (Tuesday), 38 weeks + 1 day: When I got back from work there was a note from my brother-in-law on the table: “The contractions have started. We’ve gone to the clinic.” I read these few words over and over. Out of the corner of my eye, I could see a spoon coated with jam lying on the table. I tossed it into the sink and thought about what I should do. Then I read the note one more time and left the house. Everything was bathed in light. The windshields of the cars in the street seemed to glow, and the spray from the fountain in the park sparkled. I walked along, staring at the ground and mopping the sweat from my face. Two children in straw hats ran past. The gate to the elementary school was closed and the playground was empty. Farther on there was a small florist’s, but I saw no sign of a salesperson or any customers. A tiny bunch of baby’s breath lay in the glass case. I turned the corner and found myself in front of the M Clinic. Just as my sister had said, time seemed to have stopped here, and the clinic was exactly as it had been preserved in my memory for all those years—the big camphor tree next to the gate, the frosted glass in the front door, the peeling letters on the sign. Here, too, there was no one in sight, only my shadow clearly etched on the street. I followed the wall around to the back of the building and slipped through the old broken gate into the garden. My heart started to pound the moment I set foot on the carefully tended grass, just as it always had. I looked up at the clinic, shielding my eyes from the glare of the sun reflected in the windows. As I approached the building, the smell of paint drifted toward me. The air was still, and there was no sign of life around me. I was the only thing moving in the garden. I was tall enough now to look into the examination room without standing on a box, but there were no doctors or nurses to be seen. It was dark and deserted, like a science classroom after school gets out. I stood looking in at the bottles of medicine, the blood-pressure cuff, the breech-birth poster, the ultrasound monitor. The glass was warm against my face. I thought I heard a baby crying in the distance. A tiny, trembling, tear-soaked cry coming from somewhere beyond the blaze of sunlight. As I listened, the sound seemed to be absorbed directly into my eardrums, and my head began to ache. I stepped back and looked up at the third floor. I saw a woman in a nightgown staring off into the distance. Her hair fell across her cheeks and her face was obscured in shadow, so I wasn’t sure if it was my sister. Her lips were parted slightly and she was blinking—the way you blink when you’re close to tears. I would have gone on watching her, but the angle of the sun shifted and she disappeared into the reflection. Following the baby’s cries, I climbed the fire escape. The wooden stairs groaned under my feet. My body felt limp and warm, but the hand that gripped the railing and the ears absorbing the baby’s cries were strangely cool. As the lawn slowly receded beneath me, its green became even more brilliant. The baby continued to cry. When I opened the door on the third floor, I was blind for a moment while my eyes adjusted to the light. I stood, concentrating on the baby’s cry as it swept over me in waves, until at last I could see the corridor leading away into the darkness. I set off toward the nursery to meet my sister’s ruined child.
The Word Swept out of the valley night by an inspired oneiric wind, I stood at the edge of a road, under a clear pure-gold sky, in an extraordinary mountainous land. Without looking, I sensed the lustre, the angles, and the facets of immense mosaic cliffs, dazzling precipices, and the mirrorlike glint of multitudinous lakes lying somewhere below, behind me. My soul was seized by a sense of heavenly iridescence, freedom, and loftiness: I knew that I was in Paradise. Yet, within this earthly soul, a single earthly thought rose like a piercing flame—and how jealously, how grimly I guarded it from the aura of gigantic beauty that surrounded me. This thought, this naked flame of suffering, was the thought of my earthly homeland. Barefoot and penniless, at the edge of a mountain road, I awaited the kind, luminous denizens of Heaven, while a wind, like the foretaste of a miracle, played in my hair, filled the gorges with a crystal hum, and ruffled the fabled silks of the trees that blossomed amid the cliffs lining the road. Tall grasses lapped at the tree trunks like tongues of fire; large flowers broke smoothly from the glittering branches and, like airborne goblets brimming with sunlight, glided through the air, puffing out their translucent convex petals. Their sweet, damp aroma reminded me of all the finest things I had experienced in my life. Suddenly, the road on which I stood, breathless from the shimmer, was filled with a tempest of wings. Swarming out of the blinding depths came the angels I awaited, their folded wings pointing sharply upward. Their tread was ethereal; they were like colored clouds in motion, and their transparent visages were motionless except for the rapturous tremor of their radiant lashes. Among them, turquoise birds flew with peals of happy girlish laughter, and lithe orange animals loped, fantastically speckled with black. The creatures coiled through the air, silently thrusting out their satin paws to catch the airborne flowers as they circled and soared, pressing past me with flashing eyes. Wings, wings, wings! How can I describe their convolutions and their tints? They were all-powerful and soft—tawny, purple, deep blue, velvety black, with fiery dust on the rounded tips of their bowed feathers. Like precipitous clouds they stood, imperiously poised above the angels’ luminous shoulders; now and then an angel, in a kind of marvellous transport, as if unable to restrain his bliss, suddenly, for a single instant, unfurled his winged beauty, and it was like a burst of sunlight, like the sparkling of millions of eyes. They passed in throngs, glancing heavenward. Their eyes were like jubilant chasms, and in those eyes I saw the syncope of flight. They came with gliding step, showered with flowers. The flowers spilled their humid sheen in flight; the sleek, bright beasts played, whirling and climbing; the birds chimed with bliss, soaring and dipping. I, a blinded, quaking beggar, stood at the edge of the road, and within my beggar’s soul the selfsame thought kept prattling: Cry out to them, tell them—oh, tell them that on the most splendid of God’s stars there is a land—my land—that is dying in agonizing darkness. I had the sense that, if I could grasp with my hand but one quivering shimmer, I would bring to my country such joy that human souls would instantly be illumined, and would circle beneath the plash and crackle of resurrected springtime, to the golden thunder of reawakened temples. Reaching out with trembling hands, striving to bar the angels’ path, I began clutching at the hems of their bright chasubles, at the undulating, torrid fringes of their curved wings, which slipped through my fingers like downy flowers. I moaned, I dashed about, I deliriously beseeched their indulgence, but the angels trod ever forward, oblivious of me, their chiselled faces turned upward. They streamed in hosts to a heavenly feast, into an unendurably resplendent glade, where roiled and breathed a divinity about which I dared not think. I saw fiery cobwebs, splashes, designs on gigantic crimson, russet, violet wings, and, above me, a downy rustling passed in waves. The rainbow-crowned turquoise birds pecked, the flowers floated off from shiny boughs. “Wait, hear me out!” I cried, trying to embrace an angel’s vaporous legs, but the feet, impalpable, unstoppable, slipped through my extended hands, and the borders of the broad wings only scorched my lips as they swept past. In the distance, a golden clearing between lush, vivid cliffs was filling with the surging storm; the angels were receding; the birds ceased their high-pitched agitated laughter; the flowers no longer flew from the trees; I grew feeble, I fell mute. . . . Then a miracle occurred. One of the last angels lingered, turned, and quietly approached me. I caught sight of his cavernous, staring, diamond eyes under the imposing arches of his brows. On the ribs of his outspread wings glistened what seemed like frost. The wings themselves were gray, an ineffable tint of gray, and each feather ended in a silvery sickle. His visage, the faintly smiling outline of his lips, and his straight clear forehead reminded me of features I had seen on earth. The curves, the gleaming, the charm of all the faces I had ever loved—the features of people who had long since departed from me—seemed to merge into one wondrous countenance. All the familiar sounds that came separately into contact with my hearing now seemed to blend into a single, perfect melody. He came up to me. He smiled. I could not look at him. But, glancing at his legs, I noticed a network of azure veins on his feet and one pale birthmark. From these veins, from that little spot, I understood that he had not yet totally abandoned earth, that he might understand my prayer. Then, bending my head, pressing my singed palms, smeared with bright clay, to my half-blinded eyes, I began recounting my sorrows. I wanted to explain how wondrous my land was, and how horrid its black syncope, but I did not find the words I needed. Hurrying, repeating myself, I babbled about trifles, about some burned-down house where once the sunny sheen of parquet had been reflected in an inclined mirror. I prattled of old books and old lindens, of knickknacks, of my first poems in a cobalt schoolboy notebook, of some gray boulder, overgrown with wild raspberries, in the middle of a field filled with scabiosa and daisies—but the most important thing I simply could not express. I grew confused, I stopped short, I began anew, and again, in my helpless, rapid speech, I spoke of rooms in a cool and resonant country house, of lindens, of my first love, of bumblebees sleeping on the scabiosa. It seemed to me that any minute—any minute!—I would get to what was most important, I would explain the whole sorrow of my homeland. But for some reason I could remember only minute, quite mundane things that were unable to speak or weep those corpulent, burning, terrible tears, about which I wanted to but could not tell. . . . I fell silent, raised my head. The angel smiled a quiet, attentive smile, gazed fixedly at me with his elongated diamond eyes. I felt he understood me. “Forgive me,” I exclaimed, meekly kissing the birthmark on his light-hued foot. “Forgive that I am capable of speaking only about the ephemeral, the trivial. You understand, though, my kindhearted, my gray angel. Answer me, help me, tell me, what can save my land?” Embracing my shoulders for an instant with his dovelike wings, the angel pronounced a single word, and in his voice I recognized all those beloved, those silenced voices. The word he spoke was so marvellous that, with a sigh, I closed my eyes and bowed my head still lower. The fragrance and the melody of the word spread through my veins, rose like a sun within my brain; the countless cavities within my consciousness caught up and repeated its lustrous edenic song. I was filled with it. Like a taut knot, it beat within my temple, its dampness trembled upon my lashes, its sweet chill fanned through my hair, and it poured heavenly warmth over my heart. I shouted it, I revelled in its every syllable, I violently cast up my eyes, which were filled with the radiant rainbows of joyous tears. . . . Oh, Lord—the winter dawn glows greenish in the window, and I remember not what word it was that I shouted.
LA CONCHITA In my business, where you put something like forty to forty-five thousand miles a year on your vehicle, you can't afford distractions. Truckers know what. But just about everybody else-Honda drivers especially. And yes, I carry a gun. Don't laugh. I just fired two slugs at a guy who cut me off twice and didn't even know it… On the day I was thinking of, it was just past noon and raining. I was already late because of a slide at Topanga Canyon. I didn't like driving in the rain. But I had a delivery to make in Santa Barbara, an urgent delivery, and if I couldn't guarantee door-to-door faster than FedEx or Freddie Altamirano (my major competitor) then I was out of business. It wasn't the usual packet of bonds or blockbuster screenplay. This was a human liver… I was coming up on La Conchita, when the hillside gave way. A mud slide is nothing short of an avalanche with four hundred thousand tons of liquefied dirt. And it moves fast. Steel beams snapped like chicken bones. Ahead of me, a few cars got through, but then a vanguard of boulders came sluicing across the highway. I got out of the car and opened the trunk, just to reassure myself. I eased back the lid of the cooler, and there it was, smooth and burnished, more pink than red. It was O.K. I ducked back into the care and punched the cell number of a physician at the hospital. “There's a problem,” I said. “There's some kind of slide.” “How long before they clear it?” “Could be a while. You've got to realize traffic's backed up in both directions.” “Keep on your cell. And don't do anything until I get back to you.”… A streaming dark figure surged up against the car. “Open up!” she demanded. I opened my window and there she was, a woman in her twenties, her hair wet, going on about her husband and her little girl. I got out and she tugged me through the debris and into La Conchita where the houses lay buried, crushed up like eggshells. “Do something! Dig!” I'm no hero, but I fell in beside her without a word. I saw something in the fierceness of the woman's need that was incredibly sexy. Then my cell rang. “It's Dr. Liebowitz. At the hospital. Now, listen: we found somebody and he's on his way to you, on a motorcycle. You hand the package over to him.” I grabbed a shovel away from a man-they're saying I brandished a gun-and dug more. I don't know how long it was after that, when all at once the shovel plunged all the way in. This was the miracle: he was in there, the husband, and the little girl with him, preserved in a pocket where the refrigerator and stove had gone down. And then my cell was ringing. “Gordon? Where are you? Don't you realize what's going on here? There's a woman's life at stake.” “Yeah, I'm on it.” “You know how much longer that organ's got? Freddie Altamirano's on a motorcycle and says he's wearing a silver helmet.” I saw Freddie. The Harley looked more like a dirt bike. “Hey, brother. They are pissed at the hospital.” Freddie secured the cooler. I started back up the hill, just to see if anybody else needed digging out.
Wenlock Edge My mother had a bachelor cousin a good deal younger than her, who used to visit us on the farm every summer. He brought along his mother, Aunt Nell Botts. His own name was Ernie Botts. He was a tall, florid man with a good-natured expression, a big square face, and fair curly hair springing straight up from his forehead. His hands, his fingernails were as clean as soap itself; his hips were a little plump. My name for him—when he was not around—was Earnest Bottom. I had a mean tongue. But I meant no harm. Or hardly any harm. After Aunt Nell Botts died Ernie did not come to visit anymore, but he always sent a Christmas card. When I started college in the city where he lived, he began a custom of taking me out to dinner every other Sunday evening. He did this because I was a relative—it’s unlikely that he even considered whether we were suited to spending time together. He always took me to the same place, a restaurant called the Old Chelsea, which was on the second floor of a building, looking down on Dundas Street. It had velvet curtains, white tablecloths, little rose-shaded lamps on the tables. It probably cost more, strictly speaking, than he could afford, but I did not think of that, having a country girl’s notion that all men who lived in the city, wore a suit every day, and sported such clean fingernails had reached a level of prosperity where indulgences like this were a matter of course. I always ordered the most exotic offering on the menu—chicken vol au vent or duck à l’orange—while he always ate roast beef. Desserts were wheeled up to the table on a dinner wagon: a tall coconut cake, custard tarts topped with strawberries, even out of season, chocolate-coated pastry horns full of whipped cream. I took a long time choosing, like a five-year-old trying to decide between flavors of ice cream, and then on Monday I had to fast all day, to make up for such gorging. Ernie looked a little too young to be my father. I hoped that nobody from the college would see us and think that he was my boyfriend. He inquired about my courses, and nodded solemnly when I told him, or reminded him, that I was in Honors English and Philosophy. He didn’t roll his eyes at the information, the way people at home did. He told me that he had a great respect for education and regretted that he hadn’t had the means to continue, after high school. Instead, he had got a job working for the Canadian National Railway, as a ticket salesman. Now he was a supervisor. He liked serious reading, he said, but it was not a substitute for a college education. I was pretty sure that his idea of serious reading would be the Condensed Books of the Reader’s Digest, and to get him off the subject of my studies I told him about my rooming house. In those days, the college had no dormitories—we all lived in rooming houses or in cheap apartments or in fraternity or sorority houses. My room was the attic of an old house, with generous floor space and not much headroom. But, being the former maid’s quarters, it had its own bathroom. Two other scholarship students, who were in their final year in Modern Languages, lived on the second floor. Their names were Kay and Beverly. In the high-ceilinged but chopped-up rooms of the ground floor lived a medical student who was hardly ever home, and his wife, Beth, who was home all the time, because they had two very young children. Beth was the house manager and rent collector, and she was often feuding with the second-floor girls over the way they washed their clothes in the bathroom and hung them there to dry. When Beth’s husband, Blake, was home he sometimes had to use that bathroom because of all the baby stuff in the one downstairs, and Beth said that he shouldn’t have to cope with stockings and other intimate doodads in his face. Kay and Beverly retorted that use of their own bathroom had been promised when they moved in. Why did I choose to tell this to Ernie, who flushed and said that they should have got it in writing? Kay and Beverly were a disappointment to me. They worked hard at Modern Languages, but their conversation and preoccupations seemed hardly different from those of girls who worked in banks or offices. They did their hair up in pincurls and polished their fingernails on Saturdays, because that was the night they had dates with their special boyfriends. On Sundays, they had to soothe their faces with lotion because of the whisker-burns the boyfriends had inflicted on them. I didn’t find either boyfriend in the least desirable and I wondered how they could. They said that they had once had some crazy idea of working as intepreters at the United Nations but now they figured they would teach high school, and with any luck get married. They gave me unwelcome advice. I had got a job in the college cafeteria. I pushed a cart around collecting dirty dishes and wiping the tables clean. They warned me that this job was not a good idea. “You won’t get asked out if people see you at a job like that.” I told Ernie about this and he said, “So, what did you say?” I told him that I’d said I wouldn’t want to go out with anybody who would make such a judgment, so what was the problem? Now I’d hit the right note. Ernie glowed; he chopped his hands up and down in the air. “Absolutely right,” he said. “That is absolutely the attitude to take. Honest work. Never listen to anybody who wants to put you down for doing honest work. Just go right ahead and ignore them. Keep your pride. Anybody that doesn’t like it, you tell them they can lump it.” This speech of his, the righteousness and approval lighting his large face, the jerky enthusiasm of his movements, roused the first doubts in me, the first gloomy suspicion that the warning might have some weight to it after all. When I got home that night, there was a note from Beth under my door, asking to talk to me. I guessed that it would be about my hanging my coat over the bannister to dry, or making too much noise on the stairs when Blake (sometimes) and the babies (always) had to sleep in the daytime. The door opened on the scene of misery and confusion in which it seemed that all Beth’s days were passed. Wet laundry—diapers and smelly baby woollens—was hanging from ceiling racks; bottles bubbled and rattled in a sterilizer on the stove. The windows were steamed up, and the chairs were covered with soggy cloths and soiled stuffed toys. The bigger baby was clinging to the bars of a playpen and letting out an accusing howl—Beth had obviously just set him in there—and the smaller one was in a high chair, with some mushy pumpkin-colored food spread like a rash across his mouth and chin. Beth peered out from all this with a tight expression of superiority on her small flat face, as if to say that not many people could put up with such a nightmare as well as she could, even if the world wasn’t generous enough to give her the least bit of credit. “You know when you moved in,” she said, then raised her voice to be heard over the bigger baby’s cries, “when you moved in I mentioned to you that there was enough space up there for two?” Another girl was moving in, she informed me. The new girl would be there Tuesdays to Fridays, while she audited some courses at the college. “Blake will bring the daybed up tonight. She won’t take up much room. I don’t imagine she’ll bring many clothes—she lives in town. You’ve had it all to yourself for six weeks now, and you’ll still have it that way on weekends.” No mention of any reduction in the rent. Nina actually did not take up much room. She was small, and thoughtful in her movements—she never bumped her head against the rafters, as I did. She spent a lot of her time sitting cross-legged on the daybed, her brownish-blond hair falling over her face, a Japanese kimono loose over her childish white underwear. She had beautiful clothes—a camel-hair coat, cashmere sweaters, a pleated tartan skirt with a large silver pin—the sort of clothes you would see in a magazine layout, under the headline “Outfitting Your Junior Miss for Her New Life on Campus.” But the moment she got back from the college she discarded her costume for the kimono. I also changed out of my school clothes, but in my case it was to keep the press in my skirt and preserve a reasonable freshness in my blouse or sweater, so I hung everything up carefully. Nina tossed her clothes anywhere.I ate an early supper at the college as part of my wages, and Nina always seemed to have eaten, too, though I didn’t know where. Perhaps her supper was just what she ate all evening—almonds and oranges and a supply of little chocolate kisses wrapped in red or gold or purple foil. I asked her if she didn’t get cold, in that light kimono. “Unh-unh,” she said. She grabbed my hand and pressed it to her neck. “I’m permanently warm,” she said, and in fact she was. Her skin even looked warm, though she said that was just a tan, and it was fading. And connected with this skin warmth was a particular odor that was nutty or spicy, not displeasing but not the odor of a body that was constantly bathed and showered. (Nor was I entirely fresh myself, owing to Beth’s rule of two baths a week.) I usually read until late at night. I’d thought that it might be harder to read, with someone else in the room, but Nina was an easy presence. She peeled her oranges and chocolates; she laid out games of solitaire. When she had to stretch to move a card she’d sometimes make a little noise, a groan or grunt, as if complaining about this slight adjustment of her body but taking pleasure in it, all the same. Otherwise she was content, and curled up to sleep with the light on whenever she was ready. And because there was no special need for us to talk we soon began to talk, and tell about our lives. Nina was twenty-two years old and this was what had happened to her since she was fifteen: First, she had got herself pregnant (that was how she put it) and married the father, who wasn’t much older than she was. This was in a town somewhere outside Chicago. The name of the town was Laneyville, and the only jobs there were at the grain elevator or fixing machinery, for the boys, and working in stores, for the girls. Nina’s ambition was to be a hairdresser but you had to go away and train for that. Laneyville wasn’t where she had always lived—it was where her grandmother lived, and she lived with her grandmother because her father had died and her mother had got married again and her stepfather had kicked her out. She had a second baby, another boy, and her husband was supposed to have a job lined up in another town so he went off there. He was going to send for her but he never did. So she left both children with her grandmother and took the bus to Chicago. On the bus she met a girl named Marcy, who, like her, was headed for Chicago. Marcy knew a man there who owned a restaurant and she said he would give them jobs. But when they got to Chicago and located the restaurant it turned out that the man didn’t own it—he’d only worked there and he’d quit some time before. The man who did own it had an empty room upstairs and he let them stay there in return for their cleaning the place up every night. They had to use the ladies’ room in the restaurant but they weren’t supposed to spend too much time there in the daytime—they had to wash themselves at night. They didn’t sleep hardly at all. They made friends with the barman in the place across the street—he was a queer but nice—and he let them drink ginger ale for free. They met a man there who invited them to a party and after that they got asked to other parties and it was during this time that Nina met Mr. Purvis. It was he, in fact, who gave her the name Nina. Before that, she had been June. She went to live at Mr. Purvis’s place in Chicago. She waited a little while before bringing up the subject of her boys. There was so much room in Mr. Purvis’s house that she was hoping they could live with her there. But when she mentioned it Mr. Purvis told her that he despised children. He did not want her to get pregnant, ever. But somehow she did, and she and Mr. Purvis went to Japan, to get her an abortion. At least up until the last minute that was what she thought she would do, but then she decided, no. She would go ahead and have the baby. “All right,” he said. He would pay her way back to Chicago, but from then on she was on her own. She knew her way around a bit by this time, and she went to a place where they looked after you till the baby was born, and you could have it adopted. It was born and it was a girl and Nina named her Gemma and decided to keep her, after all. She knew another girl who had had a baby in this place and kept it, and she and this girl made an arrangement that they would work shifts and live together and raise their babies. They got an apartment that they could afford and they got jobs—Nina’s in a cocktail lounge—and everything was all right. Then Nina came home just before Christmas—Gemma was eight months old—and found the other mother half drunk and fooling around with a man, and the baby, Gemma, burning up with fever, too sick to even cry. Nina wrapped her up and took her to the hospital in a cab. Traffic was all snarled up because of Christmas, and when she finally got there they told her that it was the wrong hospital, for some reason, and sent her off to another hospital. On the way there, Gemma had a convulsion and died. Nina wanted to have a real burial for Gemma, not just have her put in with some old pauper who had died (that was what she’d heard happened to a baby’s body when you didn’t have any money), so she went to Mr. Purvis. He was nicer to her than she’d expected, and he paid for the casket and the gravestone with Gemma’s name, and after it was all over he took Nina back. He took her on a long trip to London and Paris and a lot of other places, to cheer her up. When they got home he shut up the house in Chicago and moved here. He owned some property out in the country nearby; he owned racehorses. He asked her if she would like to get an education, and she said she would. He said she should just sit in on some courses to see what she’d like to study. She told him that she’d like to live part of the time the way ordinary students lived, and he said he thought that that could be arranged. Hearing about Nina’s life made me feel like a simpleton. I asked her what Mr. Purvis’s first name was. “Arthur.” “Why don’t you call him that?” “It wouldn’t sound natural.” Nina was not supposed to go out at night, except to the college for certain specified events, such as a play or a concert or a lecture. She was supposed to eat lunch and dinner at the cafeteria. Though, as I said, I don’t know whether she ever did. Breakfast was Nescafé in our room, and day-old doughnuts I brought home from the cafeteria. Mr. Purvis did not like the sound of this but he accepted it as part of Nina’s imitation of the college student’s life—as long as she ate a good hot meal once a day and a sandwich and soup at another meal, and this was what he thought she did. She always checked what the cafeteria was offering, so that she could tell him she’d had the sausages or the Salisbury steak, and the salmon or the egg-salad sandwich. “So how would he know if you did go out?” Nina got to her feet, with that little sound of complaint or pleasure, and padded over to the attic window. “Come here,” she said. “And stay behind the curtain. See?” A black car, parked not right across the street but a few doors down. A streetlight caught the gleaming white hair of the driver. “Mrs. Winner,” Nina said. “She’ll be there till midnight. Or later, I don’t know. If I went out, she’d follow me and hang around wherever I went, then follow me back.” “What if she went to sleep?” “Not her. Or if she did and I tried anything she’d be awake like a shot.” Just to give Mrs. Winner some practice, as Nina put it, we left the house one evening and took a bus to the city library. From the bus window we watched the long black car having to slow and dawdle at every bus stop, then speed up to stay with us. We had to walk a block to the library, and Mrs. Winner passed us and parked beyond the front entrance, and watched us—we believed—in her rearview mirror. I wanted to see if I could check out a copy of “The Scarlet Letter,” which was required for one of my courses. I could not afford to buy one, and the copies at the college library were all checked out. Also I wanted to take a book out for Nina—the sort of book that showed simplified charts of history. Nina had bought the textbooks for the courses she was auditing. She had bought notebooks and pens—the best fountain pens of that time—in matching colors. Red for Pre-Columbian Civilizations, blue for the Romantic Poets, green for Victorian and Georgian English Novelists, yellow for Fairy Tales from Basile to Andersen. She sat in the back row at every lecture, because she thought that that was the proper place for her. She spoke as if she enjoyed walking through the Arts Building with the throng of other students, finding her seat, opening her textbook at the specified page, taking out her pen. But her notebooks remained empty. The trouble was, as I saw it, that she had no pegs to hang anything on. She did not know what Victorian meant, or Romantic, or Pre-Columbian. She had been to Japan, and Barbados, and many of the countries in Europe, but she could never have found those places on a map. She wouldn’t have known whether the French Revolution came before or after the First World War. I wondered how these courses had been chosen for her. Had she liked the sound of them? Had Mr. Purvis thought that she could master them? Or had he perhaps chosen them cynically, so that she would soon get her fill of being a student? While I was looking for the book I wanted, I caught sight of Ernie Botts. He had an armful of mysteries, which he was picking up for an old friend of his mother’s. He had told me that he always did that, just as he always played checkers, on Saturday mornings, with a crony of his father’s out in the War Veterans’ Home. I introduced him to Nina. I had told him about her moving in, but nothing about her former or even her present life. He shook Nina’s hand and said that he was pleased to meet her and asked at once if he could give us a ride home. I was about to say no, thanks, we’d take the bus, when Nina asked him where his car was parked. “In the back,” he said. “Is there a back door?” “Yes, yes. It’s a sedan.” “No, I meant in the library,” Nina said. “In the building.” “Yes. Yes there is,” Ernie said, flustered. “I’m sorry, I thought you meant the car. Yes. A back door in the library. I came in that way myself. I’m sorry.” Now he was blushing, and he would have gone on apologizing if Nina had not broken in with a kind laugh. “Well, then,” she said. “We can go out the back door. So that’s settled. Thanks.” Ernie drove us home. He asked if we would like to detour to his place, for a cup of coffee or a hot chocolate. “Sorry, we’re sort of in a rush,” Nina said. “But thanks for asking.” “I guess you’ve got homework.” “Homework, yes,” she said. “We sure do.” I was thinking that he had never once asked me to his house. Propriety. One girl, no. Two girls, O.K. No black car across the street, when we said our thanks and good nights. No black car when we looked out the attic window. In a short time, the phone rang, for Nina, and I heard her saying, on the landing, “Oh, no, we just went in the library and got a book and came straight home on the bus. There was one right away, yes. I’m fine. Absolutely. Night-night.” She came swaying and smiling up the stairs. “Mrs. Winner’s got herself in hot water tonight.” One morning, Nina did not get out of bed. She said she had a sore throat, a fever. “Touch me.” “You always feel hot to me.” “Today I’m hotter.” It was a Friday. She asked me to call Mr. Purvis, to tell him that she wanted to stay here for the weekend. “He’ll let me. He can’t stand anybody being sick around him—he’s a nut that way.” Mr. Purvis wondered if he should send a doctor. Nina had foreseen that, and told me to say that she just needed to rest, and she’d phone him, or I would, if she got any worse. “Well, then, tell her to take care,” he said, and thanked me for phoning, and for being a good friend to Nina. And then, as an afterthought, he asked me if I would like to join him for Saturday night’s dinner. He said he found it boring to eat alone. Nina had thought of that, too. “If he asks you to go and eat with him tomorrow night, why don’t you go? There’s always something good to eat on Saturday nights—it’s special.” The cafeteria was closed on Saturdays. The possibility of meeting Mr. Purvis both disturbed and intrigued me. So I agreed to dine with him—he had actually said “dine.” When I went back upstairs, I asked Nina what I should wear. “Why worry now? It’s not till tomorrow night.” Why worry, indeed? I had only one good dress, the turquoise crêpe that I had bought with some of my scholarship money, to wear when I gave the valedictory address at my high-school commencement exercises. Mrs. Winner came to get me. Her hair was not white but platinum blond, a color that to me certified a hard heart, immoral dealings, and a long bumpy ride through the sordid back alleys of life. Nevertheless, I opened the front door of the car to ride beside her, because I thought that that was the decent and democratic thing to do. She let me do this, standing beside me, then briskly opened the back door. I had thought that Mr. Purvis would live in one of the stodgy mansions surrounded by acres of lawns and unfarmed fields north of the city. It was probably the racehorses that had made me think so. Instead, we travelled east through prosperous but not lordly streets, past brick and mock-Tudor houses with their lights on in the early dark and their Christmas lights already blinking out of the snowcapped shrubbery. We turned in at a narrow driveway between high hedges and parked in front of a house that I recognized as “modern” by its flat roof and long wall of windows and the fact that the building material appeared to be concrete. No Christmas lights here, no lights of any kind. No sign of Mr. Purvis, either. The car slid down a ramp into a cavernous basement garage; we rode an elevator up one floor and emerged into a hallway that was dimly lit and furnished like a living room, with upholstered straight-backed chairs and little polished tables and mirrors and rugs. Mrs. Winner waved me ahead of her through one of the doors that opened off this hallway, into a windowless room with a bench and hooks around the walls. It was just like a school cloakroom, except for the polish on the wood and the carpet on the floor. “Here is where you leave your clothes,” Mrs. Winner said. I removed my top boots. I stuffed my mittens into my coat pockets. I hung my coat up. Mrs. Winner stayed with me. There was a comb in my pocket and I wanted to fix my hair, but not with her watching. And I did not see a mirror. “Now the rest,” she said. She looked straight at me to see if I understood, and, when I appeared not to (though, in a sense, I did—I understood but hoped I had made a mistake), she said, “Don’t worry, you won’t be cold. The house is well heated throughout.” I did not move to obey, and she spoke to me casually, as if she could not be bothered with contempt. “I hope you’re not a baby.” I could have reached for my coat, at that point. I could have demanded to be driven back to the rooming house. I could even have walked back on my own. I remembered the way we had come and, though it would have been cold, it would have taken me less than an hour. “Oh, no,” Mrs. Winner said, when I still did not move. “So you’re just a bookworm. That’s all you are.” I sat down. I removed my shoes. I unfastened and peeled down my stockings. I stood up and unzipped then yanked off the dress in which I had delivered the valedictory address with its final words of Latin. Ave atque vale. Still covered by my slip, I reached back and unhooked my brassiere, then somehow hauled it free of my arms and around to the front to be discarded. Next came my garter belt, then my panties—when they were off I balled them up and hid them under the brassiere. I put my feet back into my shoes. “Bare feet,” Mrs. Winner said, sighing. It seemed that the slip was too tiresome for her to mention, but after I had again taken my shoes off she said, “Bare. Do you know the meaning of the word? Bare.” I pulled the slip over my head, and she handed me a bottle of lotion and said, “Rub yourself with this.” It smelled like Nina. I rubbed some on my arms and shoulders, the only parts of myself that I could touch, with Mrs. Winner standing there watching, and then we went out into the hall, my eyes avoiding the mirrors, and she opened another door and I went into the next room alone. It had not occurred to me that Mr. Purvis might be waiting in the same naked condition as myself, and he was not. He wore a dark-blue blazer, a white shirt, an ascot scarf (though I did not know it was called that at the time), and gray slacks. He was hardly taller than I was, and he was thin and old, mostly bald, with wrinkles in his forehead when he smiled. It had not occurred to me, either, that the undressing might be a prelude to rape, or to any ceremony but supper. (And indeed it was not, to judge by the appetizing smells in the room and the silver-lidded dishes on the sideboard.) But why hadn’t I thought of such a thing? Why wasn’t I more apprehensive? It had something to do with my ideas about old men. I thought that they were not only incapable, owing to their unsavory physical decline, but too worn down—or depressed—by their various trials and experiences to have any interest left. I wasn’t stupid enough to think that my being undressed had nothing to do with the sexual uses of my body, but I took it more as a dare than as a preliminary to further trespass, and my going along with it finally had more to do with pride or some shaky recklessness than with anything else. And that word. “Bookworm.” Here I am, I might have wished to say, in the skin of my body which does not shame me any more than the bareness of my teeth. Of course that was not true, and in fact I had broken out in a sweat, but not for fear of any violation. Mr. Purvis shook my hand, making no sign of awareness that I lacked clothing. He said that it was a pleasure for him to meet Nina’s friend. Just as if I were somebody Nina had brought home from school. Which, in a way, was true. An inspiration to Nina, he said I was. “She admires you very much. Now, you must be hungry. Shall we see what they’ve provided for us?” He lifted the lids and set about serving me. Cornish hens, which I took to be pygmy chickens, saffron rice with raisins, various finely cut vegetables fanned out at an angle and preserving their color more faithfully than the vegetables that I regularly saw. A dish of muddy-green pickles and a dish of dark-red preserve. “Not too much of these,” Mr. Purvis said of the pickles and the preserve. “A bit hot to start with.” He ushered me back to the table, turned again to the sideboard and served himself sparingly, and sat down. There was a pitcher of water on the table, and a bottle of wine. I got the water. Serving me wine in his house, he said, would probably be classed as a capital offense. I was a little disappointed, as I had never had a chance to drink wine. When Ernie and I went to the Old Chelsea, he always expressed his satisfaction that no wine or liquor was served on Sundays. Not only did he refuse to drink, on Sunday or on any other day, but he disliked seeing others do it. “Now, Nina tells me,” Mr. Purvis said, “Nina tells me that you are studying English Philosophy, but I think it must be English and Philosophy, am I right? Because surely there is not so great a supply of English philosophers?” In spite of his warning, I had taken a dollop of green pickle on my tongue and was too stunned to reply. He waited courteously while I gulped down water. “We start with the Greeks. It’s a survey course,” I said, when I could speak. “Oh yes. Greece. Well, who is your favorite Greek so far—Oh, no, just a minute. It will fall apart more easily like this.” There followed a demonstration of how to separate and remove the meat from the bones of a Cornish hen—nicely done, and without condescension, rather as if it were a joke we might share. “Your favorite?” “We haven’t got to him yet—we’re doing the pre-Socratics,” I said. “But Plato.” “Plato is your favorite. So you read ahead, you don’t just stay where you’re supposed to? Plato. Yes, I could have guessed that. You like the cave?” “Yes.” “Yes, of course. The cave. It’s beautiful, isn’t it?” When I was sitting down, the most flagrant part of me was out of sight. If my breasts had been tiny and ornamental, like Nina’s, I could have been almost at ease. Instead, they were large and lollopy; they were like bald night creatures dumbfounded by the light. I tried to look at him when I spoke, but against my will I suffered waves of flushing. When this happened, I thought I sensed his voice changing slightly, becoming more soothing and politely satisfied, as if he’d just made a winning move in a game. But he went on talking nimbly and entertainingly, telling me about a trip he had made to Greece. Delphi, the Acropolis, the famous light that you didn’t believe could be true but was true, the bare bones of the Peloponnesus. “And then to Crete—do you know about the Minoan civilization?” “Yes.” “Of course you do. Of course. And you know the way the Minoan ladies dressed?” “Yes.” I looked into his face this time, his eyes. I was determined not to squirm away, not even when I felt the heat on my throat. “Very nice, that style,” he said almost sadly. “Very nice. It’s odd the different things that are hidden in different eras. And the things that are displayed.” Dessert was vanilla custard and whipped cream, with bits of cake in it, and raspberries. He ate only a few bites of his. But, after failing to settle down enough to enjoy the first course, I was determined not to miss out on anything rich and sweet, and I fixed my appetite and attention on every spoonful. He poured coffee into small cups and invited me to drink it in the library. My buttocks made a slapping noise, as I loosened myself from the sleek upholstery of the dining-room chair. But this was almost covered up by the clatter of the delicate coffee cups on the tray, in his shaky old grasp. Libraries in houses were known to me only from books. This one was entered through a panel in the dining-room wall. The panel swung open without a sound, at a touch of his raised foot. He apologized for going ahead of me, as he had to do when he carried the coffee. To me it was a relief. I thought that the back of the body—not just mine but anyone’s—was the most beastly part. When I was seated in the chair he indicated, he gave me my coffee. It was not as easy to sit here, out in the open, as it had been at the dining-room table. That chair had been covered with smooth striped silk but this one was upholstered in some dark plush material, which prickled me, setting off an intimate agitation. The light in this room was brighter and the books lining the walls seemed more prying and reproving than the dim dining room, with its landscape paintings and light-absorbing panels. For a moment, as we moved from one room to the other, I’d had some notion of a story—the sort of story I’d heard of but that few people then got the chance to read—in which the room referred to as a library would turn out to be a bedroom, with soft lights and puffy cushions and all manner of downy coverings. But the room we were in was plainly a library. The reading lights, the books on the glass-enclosed shelves, the invigorating smell of the coffee. Mr. Purvis pulling out a book, riffling through its leaves, finding what he wanted. “It would be very kind if you would read to me. My eyes are tired in the evenings. You know this book?” “ ‘A Shropshire Lad.’ ” I knew it. In fact, I knew many of the poems by heart. “And may I ask you please—may I ask you please—not to cross your legs?” My hands were trembling when I took the book from him. “Yes,” he said. “Yes.” He chose a chair in front of the bookcase, facing me. “Now—” “ ‘On Wenlock Edge the wood’s in trouble,’—” The familiar words and rhythms calmed me down. They took me over. Gradually I began to feel more at peace. The gale, it plies the saplings double, It blows so hard, ’twill soon be gone: To-day the Roman and his trouble Are ashes under Uricon. Where was Uricon? Who knew? It wasn’t really that I forgot where I was or whom I was with or in what condition I sat there. But I had come to feel somewhat remote and philosophical. The thought came to me that everybody in the world was naked, in a way. Mr. Purvis was naked, though he wore clothes. We were all sad bare creatures. Shame receded. I just kept turning the pages, reading one poem and then another, then another. Liking the sound of my voice. Until to my surprise and almost to my disappointment—there were still wonderful lines to come—Mr. Purvis interrupted me. He stood up; he sighed. “Enough, enough,” he said. “That was very nice. Thank you. Your country accent is quite suitable. Now it’s my bedtime.” I handed him the book. He replaced it on the shelf and closed the glass doors. The country accent was news to me. “And I’m afraid it’s time to send you home.” He opened another door, into the hallway I had seen so long ago, at the beginning of the evening. I passed in front of him and the door closed behind me. I may have said good night. It is even possible that I thanked him for dinner, and that he spoke to me a few dry words (not at all, thank you for your company, it was very kind of you, thank you for reading Housman) in a suddenly tired, old, crumpled, and indifferent voice. He did not lay a hand on me. The same dimly lit cloakroom. The turquoise dress, my stockings, my slip. Mrs. Winner appeared as I was fastening my stockings. She said only one thing to me, as I was ready to leave. “You forgot your scarf.” And there indeed was the scarf I had knitted in Home Economics class, the only thing I would ever knit in my life. I had come close to abandoning it, in this place. As I got out of the car, Mrs. Winner said, “Mr. Purvis would like to speak to Nina before he goes to bed. If you would remind her.” But there was no Nina waiting to receive this message. Her bed was made up. Her coat and boots were gone. A few of her clothes were still hanging in the closet. Beverly and Kay had both gone home for the weekend, so I ran downstairs to see if Beth had any information. “I’m sorry,” Beth, whom I never saw sorry about anything, said. “I can’t keep track of all your comings and goings.” Then, as I turned away, “I’ve asked you several times not to thump so much on the stairs. I just got Christopher to sleep.” I had not made up my mind what I would say to Nina when I got home. Would I ask her if she, too, was required to be naked in that house—if she had known perfectly well what sort of an evening was waiting for me? Or would I say nothing and wait for her to ask me? And, even then, would I say innocently that I’d eaten Cornish hen and yellow rice, and that it was very good? That I’d read from “A Shropshire Lad”? Would I just let her wonder? Now that she was gone, none of this mattered. The focus was shifted. Mrs. Winner phoned after ten o’clock—breaking another of Beth’s rules—and when I told her that Nina was not there she said, “Are you sure of that?” She said the same thing when I told her that I had no idea where Nina had gone. “Are you sure?” I asked her not to phone again till morning, because of Beth’s rules and the babies’ sleep, and she said, “Well. I don’t know. This is serious.” When I got up in the morning, the car was parked across the street. Later, Mrs. Winner rang the bell and told Beth that she had been sent to check Nina’s room. Even Beth was quelled by Mrs. Winner, who looked all around our room, in the bathroom and the closet, even shaking out a couple of blankets that were folded on the closet floor. I was still in my pajamas, writing an essay on “Sir Gawain and the Green Knight,” and drinking Nescafé. Mrs. Winner said that she had phoned the hospitals, to see if Nina had been taken ill, and that Mr. Purvis himself had gone out to check several other places where she might be. “If you know anything, it would be better to tell us,” she said. “Anything at all.” Then as she started down the stairs she turned and said in a voice that was less menacing, “Is there anybody at the college she was friendly with? Anybody you know?” I said that I didn’t think so. I had seen Nina at the college only a couple of times. Once, she was walking down the lower corridor of the Arts Building, in the crush between classes, probably on her way to a class of her own. The other time, she was in the cafeteria. Both times she was alone. It was not particularly unusual to be alone when you were hurrying from one class to another but it was a little strange to sit alone with a cup of coffee in the cafeteria at quarter to four in the afternoon, when that space was practically deserted. She sat with a smile on her face, as if to say how pleased, how privileged, she felt to be there, how alert and ready she was to respond to the demands of this life—as soon as she understood what they were. In the afternoon it began to snow. The car across the street had to move, to make way for the snowplow. When I went into the bathroom and caught the flutter of Nina’s kimono on its hook on the door, I finally felt what I had been suppressing—a true fear for Nina. I could see her, disoriented, weeping into her loose hair, wandering around in the snow in her white underwear instead of her camel-hair coat, though I knew perfectly well that she had taken the coat with her. The phone rang just as I was about to leave for my first class on Monday morning. “It’s me,” Nina said, in a rushed warning, but with something like triumph in her voice. “Listen. Please. Could you please do me a favor?” “Where are you? They’re looking for you.” “Who is?” “Mr. Purvis. Mrs. Winner.” “Well, you’re not to tell them. Don’t tell them anything. I’m here. “Where?” “Ernest’s.” “Ernest’s?” I said. “Ernie’s?” “Sh-h-h. Did anybody there hear you?” “No.” “Listen, could you please, please get on a bus and bring me the rest of my stuff? I need my shampoo. I need my kimono. I’m going around in Ernest’s bathrobe. You should see me—I look like an old woolly brown dog. Is the car still outside?” I went and looked. “Yes.” “O.K. then, you should get on the bus and ride up to the college just like you normally do. And then catch the bus downtown. You know where to get off. Dundas and Richmond. Then walk over here. Carlisle Street. Three sixty-three. You know it, don’t you?” “Is Ernie there?” “No, dum-dum. He’s at work. He’s got to support us, doesn’t he?” Us? Was Ernie to support Nina and me? No. Ernie and Nina. Ernie was to support Ernie and Nina. Nina said, “Oh, please. You’re the only friend I’ve got.” I did as directed. To fool Mrs. Winner, I stuffed Nina’s things into my satchel. I caught the college bus, then the downtown bus. I got off at Dundas and Richmond and walked west to Carlisle Street. The snowstorm was over, the sky was clear, it was a bright, windless, deep-frozen day. The light hurt my eyes and the fresh snow squeaked under my feet. Half a block north, on Carlisle Street, I found the house where Ernie had lived with his mother and father and then with his mother and then alone. And now—how was it possible?—with Nina. The house looked exactly as it had when I had gone there once or twice with my mother. A brick bungalow with a tiny front yard, an arched living-room window with an upper pane of colored glass. Cramped and genteel. Nina was wrapped, just as she had said, in a man’s brown woolly tasselled dressing gown, with the manly but innocent Ernie smell of shaving cream and Lifebuoy soap. She grabbed my hands, which were stiff with cold inside my mittens. “Frozen,” she said. “Come on, we’ll get them into some warm water.” “They’re not frozen,” I said. “Just freezing.” But she went ahead and helped me off with my things, and took me into the kitchen and ran a bowlful of water, and then as the blood returned painfully to my fingers she told me how Ernest (Ernie) had come to the rooming house on Saturday night. He was bringing a magazine that had a lot of pictures of old ruins and castles and things that he thought might interest me. She got herself out of bed and came downstairs, because, of course, he would not go upstairs, and when he saw how sick she was he said she had to come home with him so that he could look after her. Which he had done so well that her sore throat was practically gone and her fever completely gone. And then they had decided that she would stay here. She would just stay with him and never go back to where she was before. She seemed unwilling even to mention Mr. Purvis’s name. “But it has to be a big huge secret,” she said. “You’re the only one to know. Because you’re our friend and you’re the reason we met.” She was making coffee. “Look up there,” she said, waving at the open cupboard. “Look at the way he keeps things. Mugs here. Cups and saucers here. Every cup has got its own hook. Isn’t it tidy? The house is just like that all over. I love it. “You’re the reason we met,” she repeated. “If we have a baby and it’s a girl, we could name it after you.” I held my hands round the mug, still feeling a throb in my fingers. There were African violets on the windowsill over the sink. His mother’s order in the cupboards, his mother’s houseplants. The big fern was probably still in front of the living-room window, and the doilies on the armchairs. What Nina had said, in regard to herself and Ernie, seemed brazen and—especially when I thought of the Ernie part of it—abundantly distasteful. “You’re going to get married?” “Well.” “You said if you have a baby.” “Well, you never know, we might have started that without being married,” Nina said, ducking her head mischievously. “With Ernie?” I said. “With Ernie?” “Well, there’s Ernie,” she said. “And then there’s Er-nest.” She hugged the bathrobe around herself. “Might be something happening already, you never know.” “What about Mr. Purvis?” “What about him?” “Well, if it’s something happening already, couldn’t it be his?” Everything about Nina changed. Her face turned mean and sour. “Him,” she said with contempt. “What do you want to talk about him for? He never had it in him.” “Oh? What about Gemma?” “What do you want to talk about the past for? Don’t make me sick. That’s all dead and gone. It doesn’t matter to me and Ernest. We’re together now. We’re in love now.” In love. With Ernie. Ernest. Now. “O.K.,” I said. “Sorry I yelled at you. Did I yell? I’m sorry. You’re our friend and you brought me my things and I appreciate it. You’re Ernest’s cousin and you’re our family.” She slipped behind me and her fingers darted into my armpits and she began to tickle me, at first lazily and then furiously. “Aren’t you? Aren’t you?” I tried to get free but I couldn’t. I went into spasms of suffering laughter and wriggled and cried out and begged her to stop. Which she did, when she had me quite helpless, and both of us were out of breath. “You’re the ticklishest person I ever met,” she said. I had to wait a long time for the bus, stamping my feet on the pavement. When I got to the college, I had missed my second class, as well as the first, and I was late for my work in the cafeteria. I changed into my green cotton uniform in the broom closet and pushed my mop of black hair (the worst hair in the world for showing up in food, the manager had warned me) under a cotton snood. I was supposed to get the sandwiches and salads out on the shelves before the doors opened for lunch, but now I had to do it with an impatient line of people watching me. I thought of what Beverly and Kay had said, about spoiling my chances with men, marking myself off in the wrong way. How scornful I’d been when they said it, but maybe they’d been right, after all. It appeared that, except in examinations, I got many things wrong. After I’d finished cleaning up the cafeteria tables, I changed back into my ordinary clothes and went to the college library to work on my essay. An underground tunnel fed from the Arts Building to the library, and on bulletin boards around the entrance to this tunnel were posted advertisements for movies and restaurants and used bicycles and typewriters, as well as notices for plays and concerts. The Music Department announced that a free recital of songs composed to fit the poems of the English country poets would be presented on a date that had now passed. I had seen this notice before, and did not have to look at it to be reminded of the names: Herrick, Housman, Tennyson. A few steps into the tunnel the lines began to assault me: On Wenlock Edge the wood’s in trouble. Had he known? Had he known that I would never think of those lines again without feeling the prickle of the upholstery on my bare haunches? The sticky prickly shame. A far greater shame it seemed now than at the time. He had got me, in spite of myself. From far, from eve and morning And yon twelve-winded sky, The stuff of life to knit me Blew hither: here am I. No. What are those blue remembered hills, What s pires, what farms are those? No, never. White in the moon the long road lies That leads me from my love. No. No. No. I would always be reminded of what I had done. What I had agreed to do. Not been forced, not ordered, not even persuaded. Agreed to do. Nina would know. She would be laughing about it. Not cruelly, but just the way she laughed at so many things. She would always remind me. Nina and Ernie. In my life from now on. The college library was a high beautiful space, designed and built and paid for by people who believed that those who sat at its long tables in front of open books—even those who were hungover, sleepy, resentful, and uncomprehending—should have space above them, panels of dark gleaming wood around them, high windows bordered with Latin admonitions through which to look at the sky. For a few years before they went into schoolteaching or business or began to rear children, they should have that. And now it was my turn and I would have it, too. “Sir Gawain and the Green Knight.” I was writing a good essay. I would probably get an A. I would go on writing essays and getting A’s because that was what I could do. The people who awarded scholarships, who built universities and libraries, would continue to dribble out money so that I could do it. People like Mr. Purvis. Still, those dribbles, that charity, did not make me amount to anything in their eyes. What I was doing here did not really matter. Somehow I had not known that. Nina knew it now and probably she had always known it. Ernie, too, though he had thought it his duty to pretend otherwise. Mr. Purvis and Mrs. Winner. Even Beth and Kay and Beverly knew that you had to get a footing somewhere else. This was only a game. And I had thought it was the other way round. Just as I had made myself believe that it was a challenge with Mr. Purvis and that I had won, or come off equal. Equal? Nina did not stay with Ernie for even one week. One day he came home and found her gone. Gone her coat and boots, her lovely clothes and the kimono that I had brought over. Gone her taffy hair and her tickling and the extra warmth of her skin and the little unh-unhs when she moved. All gone with no explanation, not a word on paper. Ernie was not one, however, to shut himself up and mourn. He said so, when he phoned to tell me the news and check on my availability for Sunday dinner. We climbed the stairs to the Old Chelsea and he commented on the fact that this was our last dinner before the Christmas holidays. He helped me off with my coat and I smelled Nina’s smell. Could it still be on his skin? No. The source was revealed when he passed something to me. Something like a large handkerchief. “Just put it in your coat pocket,” he said. Not a handkerchief. The texture was sturdier, with a slight ribbing. An undershirt. “I don’t want it around,” he said, and by his voice you might have thought that it was just underwear in general that he did not want around, never mind that it was Nina’s and smelled of Nina. He ordered the roast beef, and cut and chewed it with his normal efficiency and polite appetite. I gave him the news from home, which as usual at this time of year consisted of the size of the snowdrifts, the number of blocked roads, the winter havoc that gave us distinction. After some time, Ernie said, “I went round to his house. But there was nobody in it.” “Whose house?” “Her uncle’s,” he said. He knew which house it was, because he and Nina had driven past it, after dark. There was nobody there now, he said. They had packed up and gone. It had been her choice, after all. “It’s a woman’s privilege,” he said. “Like they say, it’s a woman’s privilege to change her mind.” His eyes, now that I looked into them, had a dry famished look, and the skin around them was dark and wrinkled. He pursed his mouth, controlling a tremor, then talked on, with an air of trying to see all sides, trying to understand. “It wasn’t the money. It was just that he was old and senile and she has a soft heart. And the fact that he looked after her when her parents were killed.” If I stared for a moment, he didn’t notice. “I wouldn’t have objected to us taking him in. I told her I was used to old people. But I guess she didn’t want to put that on me. “It was a shock, all right, when I came home and she was gone. But you just have to roll with the punches. Better not to expect too much. You can’t take everything personally.” When I went past the coats on my way to the ladies’ room, I got the shirt out of my pocket. I stuffed it in with the used towels. That day in the library I had been unable to go on with Sir Gawain. I had torn a page from my notebook and picked up my pen and walked out. On the landing outside the library doors there was a pay phone, and beside that hung a phone book. I looked through the phone book and on the piece of paper I wrote two things. They were not phone numbers but addresses. 1648 Henfryn Street. The other address, which I needed only to confirm, was 363 Carlisle Street. I walked back through the tunnel to the Arts Building and entered the little shop across from the Common Room. I had enough change in my pocket to buy an envelope and a stamp. I tore off the part of the paper with the Carlisle Street address on it and put that scrap into the envelope. I sealed the envelope and on the front of it I wrote the name of Mr. Purvis and the address on Henfryn Street. All in block capitals. Then I licked and fixed the stamp. I think that in those days it would have been a four-cent stamp. Just outside the shop was a mail chute. I slipped the envelope into it, there in the wide lower corridor of the Arts Building, with people passing me on their way to classes, on their way to have a smoke and maybe a game of bridge in the Common Room. Most of them on a course, as I was, of getting to know the ways of their own wickedness. I kept on learning things. I learned that Uricon, the Roman camp, is now Wroxeter, a town on the Severn River. 
Love and Obstacles Before I opened my eyes, I listened: above the sound wall of the clattering train, I heard two male voices. One of them was deep and spoke with a southern Serbian accent; the other was mumbly and uttered words with the slurry inflections of a Sarajevo thug—the soft consonants further softened, the vowels stuck in the gullet. I wasn’t sure what they were talking about, but there was the gurgling sound of liquid in a bottleneck, the crackling of a burning cigarette. “France,” the Sarajevan said. “Refused entry.” “Germany.” “Refused entry.” “Greece.” “Never went.” “Refused entry.” “Got me there,” the Serbian said and chortled. The train slowed to a stop; I heard the doors opening. One of the men got up and stepped out of the compartment, and the other followed. I opened my eyes as the door slid shut. They had pushed the window down and were smoking. Beyond them, I could see a man and a woman running toward the train, suitcases beating against their calves—there was a gash in the woman’s leg. I contemplated escaping from the compartment: I had a bundle of money and my life to worry about. But my fellow-travellers had pressed their butts against the door, a Y-shaped crack peeping out of the pants of one of them. The train lurched and started moving; they flicked their cigarettes out the window and came back in. I closed my eyes again. “Did you know Tuka?” the Sarajevan asked. “No.” “How about Fahro?” “Which Fahro?” “Fahro the Beast.” “Fahro the Beast. His nose was bitten off?” “Yes, that Fahro.” “I didn’t know him.” “Which cellblock were you in?” “Seven.” “Rape?” “Burglary.” “Burglary was six.” “Well, I was in seven,” the Serbian said, peevishly. “I was in five. Manslaughter.” “Nice.” “I was a little drunk.” “Life is death if you don’t have a little drink every now and then,” the Serbian concluded wisely, and chugged from the bottle. They fell silent. It was not unreasonable to suspect that they could smell my fear and were just about to slit my throat and take my money. When I sensed one of them shuffling his feet and moving toward me, I opened my eyes. They were staring at me with bemused expressions. “The child’s awake,” the Sarajevan said. “Where are you headed?” the Serbian asked me. “Zagreb,” I said. “What for?” “To visit my grandfather.” “If Grandma had balls, she would be Grandpa,” the Sarajevan said, for no apparent reason. “Do you have a pretty sister we could be very nice to?” the Serbian asked and licked his lips. “No,” I said. My grandfather was dead, and, when he was not, he did not live in Zagreb. I did have a sister. The truth was that my destination was Murska Sobota. I had a wad of money in my pocket and was on a mission to buy a freezer for my family. Some weeks before I set out on this journey, my father had called a family meeting. “There comes a time in the life of every family,” he’d said, “when it becomes necessary to acquire a large freezer.” The freezer compartment in the fridge was no longer spacious enough for us. We needed to store food—meat, mainly—for growing children; we needed to have available at all times the supplies for an improvised feast for numerous family friends. “The very well-being of our family requires new investments,” my father said. “Abundance demands storage.” My father liked to play the family-democracy game, and we often had to sit through this kind of congress so that we could vote for a decision that Father had already made. As usual, there were no objections: my mother, although she wanted a freezer, rolled her eyes at my father’s rhetoric; in my usual seventeen-year-old manner, I made sure that I was visibly indifferent to all that was said; my sister was taking notes, much too slowly. She was thirteen at the time, and still invested in the perfection of her handwriting. To my utter surprise, I was unanimously elected to be the purchaser of the freezer. Father worked in mysterious ways: he had researched the biggest model available on the lousy market of socialist Yugoslavia—a six-hundred-litre one—and he had somehow discovered that the best price was in Murska Sobota, a small town deep in Slovenia, not far from the Hungarian border. I was to take the night train to Zagreb, then a bus to Murska Sobota, where I would spend the following night at a hotel ambitiously called Evropa. The next day, I was to deliver the money to a man named Stanko, and that was where my mission ended—Stanko would arrange the shipment, and all I needed to do was come home safely. The Sarajevan looked at me intently, as if deciding whether or not to do me in for my obvious lies. He wore a suit and a tie, but his shoes looked shitty, the soles peeling off. Blinking very slowly, as if counting time with his eyes, he asked me, “Do you fuck?” “What?” “Do you fuck? Do you use your dick the way it is supposed to be used?” “A little.” “I love to fuck,” the Serbian said. “There is nothing sweeter than a fuck,” the Sarajevan said. “Yeah,” the Serbian said wistfully, and rubbed his crotch. He had tattooed knuckles; he wore a leather jacket and shoes so pointy they looked as if he had sharpened them so that they could easily penetrate the skulls of his enemies. Despite having voted for my deployment on the freezer mission, my mother had worried about me travelling. I, on the other hand, was excited: Murska Sobota sounded exotic and dangerous. This was the first time I’d be away from home alone, on the road, my first opportunity to live through the kind of experience from which a real poem might spring. For I was a budding poet; I had filled entire notebooks with verses on teen-age longing and the attendant crushing boredom. I equipped myself for the expedition with a fresh notebook, extra pencils, a book of Rimbaud’s poems—my Bible (“While swept downstream on indifferent Rivers / I felt the boatmen’s tow-ropes slacken”), several packs of Marlboros (rather than the usual crappy Drinas I smoked), and a single contraceptive pill I’d got in exchange for a live triple LP by Emerson, Lake & Palmer that I no longer cared about, as I had moved on to the Sex Pistols. I was an unwilling virgin, my bones draped in amorous flesh. Consequently, I held the belief, not uncommon among adolescent males, that beyond the constraining circles of family, friends, and prudish high-school girlfriends there lay a vast, wild territory of pure sex, where the merest physical or eye contact led to copulation unbounded. I was ready for it: in preparation for the journey, I had tested a number of scenarios in my hormone-addled brain and determined that the crucial moment would be when I offered the woman the pill, thereby expressing my gentlemanly concern and responsibility—no female would be able to say no to that. “You look like a smart kid,” the Sarajevan said. “Let’s see if you can figure out this riddle.” “Let’s hear it,” the Serbian said. “It has no head, but it has a hundred legs, a thousand windows, and five walls. It is never the same, but it is always almost the same. It is black and white and green. It disappears, and then it comes back. It smells of dung and straw and machine oil. It is the biggest thing in the world, but it can fit into the palm of your hand.” The Sarajevan watched me intently, stroking his three-day beard, as though remembering how he was at my age, before he boarded the drunken boat of adulthood, before he discovered the answer to the riddle. “It’s a house,” the Serbian said. “No house has a hundred legs, you stupid fuck,” the Sarajevan said. “Don’t call me stupid,” the Serbian said and rose to face him, his hands curled into fists. “All right, all right,” the Sarajevan said. He stood up and embraced the Serbian. They hugged and kissed each other’s cheeks several times, then sat down. I hoped that the riddle had been forgotten, but the Sarajevan would not let it go. He poked my knee with his shitty shoe and said, “What is it, kid?” “I don’t know.” “An elephant,” the Serbian said. “Shut up,” the Sarajevan said. The Serbian leapt up, ready for a punch; the Sarajevan got up; they kissed each other’s cheeks; they sat down. “Respect,” the Serbian muttered. “Or I will crack your fucking skull open.” The Sarajevan ignored him. “What is it?” he asked me. I pretended I was thinking. “Everything,” the Serbian said. “It is everything.” “With all due respect, brother, that is not the correct answer.” “Who says?” “Well, everything does not disappear and come back.” “Says who?” “Everybody knows that doesn’t happen.” “I say it does.” “Everything cannot fit into the palm of your hand.” “I say it can,” the Serbian said and got to his feet, fists as tightly clenched as ever. The Sarajevan stayed in his seat, shaking his head, apparently deciding against smashing the Serbian’s face in. “All right,” he said, “if it is that important to you, it is everything.” “Because it is,” the Serbian said and then turned to me. “Isn’t it?” The blazing clarity of dawn: light creeping from beyond muddy fields; a plane leaving a white scar across the sky; drunken soldiers howling songs of love and rape in the next compartment. The men had quieted down, exhausted by their own babbling, and I dropped off. When I woke up, they were gone, leaving a stench of sweaty mindlessness behind. I noted down the conversation and the riddle as I remembered them, then many other things. On this trip, I was happy to realize, everything was notable. In Zagreb, I boarded a bus to Murska Sobota. The quaint hills of Zagorje, with their picture-postcard houses and the occasional fairy-tale castle mounted on a hillock; a healthy, well-dressed peasant leading a herd of fat cows across the horizon; chickens pecking for worms in the middle of a dirt road: I voraciously noted it all down—it was as though someone had prettied up the land for my arrival. The man sitting next to me was invested in a crossword puzzle; he frowned and refrowned, fellating his pen. His cuffs were threadbare, his knuckles bruised; his ring stone was twisted toward his middle finger. Many of his letters were too big for the little squares. At some point, he turned his impeccably shaved face to me and asked, as though I were his assistant taking notes, “The biggest city in the world?” “Paris,” I said and he returned to the puzzle. This happened in 1981, when I was long and skinny; my legs hurt and I could not stretch them in the cramped bus. Pus accumulated in my budding pimples; there was an arbitrary erection in progress. This was youth: a perpetual sense of unease that made me long for a place where my discomfort would seem natural, where I could wallow in my own wounds. My parents, however, believed that it was their duty to guide me to a good, pleasant place, where I could be normal. They arranged spontaneous conversations about my future, during which they insisted that I declare what it was that I wanted from life. I responded with derivations of Rimbaud’s rants about the unknown quantity awakening in our era’s universal soul, about “scents, sounds, colors, and thought mounting thought,” etc. Needless to say, they were terrified by the fact that they had no idea what I was talking about. Parents know nothing about their children; no matter what they believe, the children are always one step ahead. My soliloquies often made Father regret that he hadn’t belted me more when I was little; Mother secretly read my poetry—I found traces of her worried tears staining the pages of my notebooks. I knew that the whole purpose of the freezer project was to confront me with what Father called “the laundry of life” (although Mother always did his laundry)—to have me live through the kind of banal, quotidian operation that constituted my parents’ existence and see that such operations were necessary. They wanted me to join the great community of people who made food collection and storage the central organizing principle of their lives. Food—bah! I forgot to eat the chicken-and-pepper sandwich my mother had made for me. In my notebook, I waxed poetic about the alluring possibility of simply continuing on past Murska Sobota and never buying the freezer. I would throw myself into the infinity of lifedom, taking the train to Austria, then on to Paris. I would renounce college and the future of food storage and buy a one-way ticket to the utterly unforeseeable. Sorry, I would tell my parents, but I had to do it. I had to prove that one could have a long, happy life without ever owning a freezer. “Inscribed in every journey is the frightening, exhilarating possibility of no return. This is why we say goodbye,” I wrote in my notebook. “You knew that it could happen when you sent me to the monstrous city, to the endless night, when you sent me to Murska Sobota.” I had never checked into a hotel before. I worried that the receptionist at the Hotel Evropa would not let me in because I was too young. I worried that I did not have enough cash or that my documents would be unexpectedly revealed as forgeries. I practiced the lines I would have to deliver at the reception desk, and the rehearsal quickly turned into a fantasy in which a pretty receptionist checked me in with lassitude, then took me up to my room only to rip off her hotel uniform and submerge me in a sea of pleasure. The fantasy was duly noted in my book. Needless to say, the receptionist was an elderly man, hairy and cantankerous, named Franc. When I arrived, he was checking in a foreign couple, attired for travelling convenience in sneakers, khakis, and waterproof jackets. They wanted something from him, something he wasn’t willing to concede, and by their open vowels and nasal whining I understood that they were American. I didn’t know how to assess the age of human beings who were older than me, but the woman looked much younger than my mother, perhaps because her hands were smooth and unworn. Her husband was shorter than she was, wrinkles rippling away from his eyes, a dimple in his chin deep enough to hold a screw. He kept both of his knuckly hands on the reception desk, as though he were about to leap over it and charge at the receptionist. Franc had a thin mustache that lay on his upper lip like hair sediment. On his neck there were sinister parallel sets of fingernail scratches. I remember all this, even though I didn’t write it down, because I spent an eternity waiting for the Americans to complete their check-in. I began imagining a conversation I would have with the woman if we happened to share an elevator while her unseemly husband was safely locked up somewhere else. In my high-school English, I would tell her that I liked her face flushed with pilgrimage, that I wanted to hold the summer dawn in my arms. We would stagger, embracing, to her room, where we wouldn’t even make it to the bed before, etc. Her name, I decided, was Elizabeth. “Thank you,” she said finally, and stepped away from the desk. “You’re welcome,” Franc said. He had no interest in me, for I presented no challenge: he could speak Slovenian to me and he could easily disregard any of my demands. He took my I.D. and my money and gave me in return a large key attached to a wooden pear with the number 504 carved into it. Elizabeth and her husband were still waiting for the elevator, whispering to each other. They glanced at me and did what Americans do (as I learned much later) whenever they make unwanted eye contact: they raised their eyebrows, rolled their lips inward, and brightened their faces with expressions of innocent disinterest. I said nothing; nor did I smile. On the pear that Elizabeth was holding I saw the number 505, so when they stepped out I followed them. My room was opposite theirs, and as we were each crossing our respective thresholds Elizabeth looked back at me and flashed a splendid smile. It was in Murska Sobota that I first confronted the ineluctable sadness of hotel rooms: the untouched notepad; the bedspread with infernal purple flowers; the black-and-white photograph of a soulless seaside resort; the garbage can lined with crumpled tissues that suggested a messy quickie. The window looked over the roof of a concrete parking garage, in the middle of which there was a vast puddle, shimmering like a desert mirage. There was no way I was going to spend a night alone in this cave of sorrow. I needed to find a place where comely Slovenian girls stood in clusters, steadily rejecting the clumsy advances of Slovenian boys, preserving their maidenheads for a pill-carrying boy from Sarajevo, his body a treasure to squander. Murska Sobota’s main street appeared to have been depopulated in a hurry; only the occasional empty bus drove by, its interior lights dimmed. There were no cafés or bars or young people that I could see, only closed stores, whose windows displayed stiff mannequins with their arms spread in obscure gestures of welcome, towers of concentric pots looming over families of frying pans, single shoes lined up on racks, so different in size and shape that each one seemed to represent a missing person. I spotted the appliance store where I would purchase my family’s entry into the future. In the window an enormous freezer glowed like a treasure chest in a commercial. I decided to explore the side streets and found nothing but a slumbering row of houses, the nightmarish murmur of television sets passing through a thousand quiet windows. Here and there the sky was stained with stars. A neon sign in the distance announced the name of a bar called Bar, and there I went. There was nobody in Bar except a bearded, frog-faced man, whose chin rested on the brim of his beer stein. A cloud of smoke hung as thick as a ghost above him. Without lifting his head, the man looked at me intently, as though he had been waiting for me to arrive with an important message. Message I had none, so I sat as far away from him as possible, at a table near the bar, which was tended by nobody I could see. I lit a cigarette, determined to wait for some exemplar of female beauty to walk in. The man lit a cigarette, too; he exhaled as though releasing his soul through his mouth. I began making up a poem in which the narrator walked into an empty bar, smoked and drank alone, and then discovered that the bartender was dead, slumped in a chair behind the bar, his left hand reaching for a stein of still foaming beer. I had left my notebook in the hotel, so I could not write it down, but I persevered, coming up with rhymes and avoiding looking at the man. Most human beings die without other people noticing, and I understood that I could meet the same fate that night. When they found my corpse, with its stack of cash and its mysterious single pill, they would ask themselves, “Where were we when he needed us? Why didn’t we deflower him before he perished?” The man stood up and tottered toward me. The shoulders of his jacket extended almost to his elbows, as though he had abruptly shrunk; a purple tie grew out of his shirt; he wore a little hat with a mangy feather stuck in its band. He sat down at my table, mumbling a greeting. I turned back toward the bar, looking again for a bartender. The man grumbled and gibbered, pointing toward the bar, and I nodded understandingly. The sounds gradually formed sentences, punctuated by an occasional snort or the sound of his hand slamming the table. I could not figure out whether he was pissed off or pleased by my presence in his lair. Eventually, a waitress planted two large foaming steins between us. She put a warm hand on my shoulder, asking, apparently, if I was O.K. She was so voluminous her face seemed upholstered; she smelled of cake and cookies. The drunk raised his glass and held it in front of me until I clinked it with mine. We drank and wiped the foam off our lips with the backs of our hands. He sighed in approval; I exhaled. We drank and smoked in silence. More beer came, and the man decided to open up to me: he leaned forward and back, he waved his hands in derision, he pointed his finger in various directions, and then he started crying, tears streaming down his cheeks, which were webbed with capillaries. “Everything is O.K.,” I said. “Everything will be fine.” But he just shook his head. There seemed to be no hope or relief for him. The waitress came over, distributed more beer, and dabbed at his face with her dishrag, as though she were used to cleaning his tear-crusted cheeks. The bar was dark and empty; I was drunk. The waitress wiped glasses listlessly behind the bar; time passed in silence. “What will become of the world when you leave?” Rimbaud wrote. “No matter what happens, no trace of now will remain.” I started crying, too. By the time I left Bar, my sleeve was wet with tears and snot. I could recall the waitress wiping my face at least once with her rag that stank of rancid dishwater. I gave her what seemed to me a large chunk of the freezer money and she locked the door behind me. The man was still inside, his head carefully deposited in a clearing in the forest of steins. As I stepped out onto the vacant streets of Murska Sobota, a wave of euphoria surged through me. This was experience: I had lost my head and participated in a spontaneous outpouring of emotion; I had drunk with a disgusting stranger, as Rimbaud surely had in Paris, once upon a time; I had said fuck the fuck off to the responsible life my parents had in store for me; I had spent time in the underworld of Murska Sobota and emerged soaked with sweat and tears; I had a magic pill in my pocket. I needed someone to love me tonight. I found myself in a park infused with the dung-and-straw smell of budding trees and fledgling grass. At the center of the park, there was a copper-green statue of a partisan with a rifle pointed at the darkened treetops. A man in a fur hat held a leash under a weak gas lamp while his Irish setter ran in circles with an imaginary friend, stopping every so often to look up hopefully at its owner. The fur hat was the same auburn color as the dog, and for a moment I thought the man was wearing a dead puppy on his head. Just beyond the reach of the light, a couple were groping, their hands stuck deep inside each other. I was just giving up on finding love when, at a pedestrian crossing, I spotted two young women, arm in arm, neatly clad in long coats. Their heels clacked as they crossed the street toward me; they giggled and chattered, their faces made up, their hair dewed with sourceless glimmer. One of them had a long, narrow chin; the other had big, dark eyes. They cut across the park at a brisk pace, avoiding the unlit edges. I followed them. They left the park and took the main street, down which a cistern truck crawled; two men in high rubber boots were washing the street with snaky hoses. The asphalt glistened; the women scuttled across the border between wet and dry. The strong stream from one of the hoses rushed toward my shoes and soaked them, so that when I entered dry territory I left footprints behind. Abruptly, the women stopped in front of the appliance store and examined my illuminated freezer. One of them turned to look at me, and, in panic, I stopped at a travel-agency window with a crude faded collage of sunny islands in the Adriatic, photographed from above. The women started walking again, quickening their pace until it matched the beating of my heart. It was impossible to turn back now, for we were bound together in this absurd pursuit. They turned the corner, and I ran after them, sure that we were finally reaching our goal. Around the corner, they were standing with a man dressed in denim, his large shovel-shaped hands resting comfortingly on their shoulders as they pointed at me. He smiled and called me over, and for an insane instant I thought that they were inviting me to party with them, but then he started unambiguously sprinting toward me. I took off at the speed of fear, charging down the main street, splashing through puddles. Lighter than a cork, I danced forth on the waves. I did not dare turn to see where my pursuer was, but I heard his big feet hitting the ground steadily behind me. Oh, the horror of your body not living up to the intensity of your fear—no matter how fast I wanted to run, my feet moved slowly, slipping on the wet pavement. At some point, he abandoned the pursuit, but I kept running. The Hotel Evropa emerged before me on a wholly unfamiliar street. Soaked to the bone, I savagely pushed and pulled the entrance door, until Franc, miserable in the middle of his twenty-four-hour shift, unlocked it for me. I crept past him, focussing on each of my steps so as not to appear drunk. I pressed the elevator button and waited patiently, while my center of gravity rode the surf of my inebriation. I would have waited all night, for I did not want to exhibit my wobblability, let alone ascend the eternal stairs to the fifth floor, but Franc barked at me that the elevator was already there—indeed, the door was wide open. I stepped into it and rode upward, inhaling the smell of my own sweat like a firefighter taking in oxygen. The key would not enter the lock, no matter how hard I pushed. Everything was wrong: I kicked the door with my knee, and then with my foot, and then again and again. Need I say it hurt? Need I say that the pain made everything worse? Need I say that I was terrified when I heard the lock turning and the door opened and there stood Elizabeth, pulling the flaps of a peignoir over her uncoverable breasts? Her skin glowed, her tresses were ruffled; she smelled of dreams. “How can I help you?” is what she probably said. I said nothing. Her husband was snoring so loudly that I thought he was faking it, the pitiful coward. She looked straight into my eyes; in her eyes there was love. I wanted to take hold of her hand, with its rings like bejewelled palaces; I wanted to kiss her; I wanted her to leave her stertorous husband and cultivate me in the garden of my youth. All I needed to spark a conflagration of our heated bodies was the right word. So I said, “Pill?” “Excuse me?” she said. I excavated the pill from my change pocket and offered it to her on the palm of my hand—it was tiny in its cutout piece of packaging. She looked at it, baffled, then turned around to check whether her unwitting husband was still asleep. “What is it, honey?” the husband called, stirring. I quickly put the pill back in my pocket. Seeing that, as young as I was, I was a considerate gentleman, Elizabeth flashed a barely perceptible smile, and I understood that we were in it together now. So when the husband came to the door in his baseball-patterned pajamas, I said, as innocently as I could, “Maybe you have pill? For head?” I pointed at my head, lest there be any confusion as to whose head we were talking about. “No, I am sorry,” Elizabeth said and started closing the door. “Maybe aspirin?” I said. “One aspirin? Aspirin?” She shut the door and turned the lock twice. Clearly, I had not said the right word. I had not considered this outcome. I was sure that we had connected, that electricity had flowed between our trembling bodies. Swaying before the cruelly closed door, I wanted to knock, to clarify to Elizabeth that, yes, I was in love with her, and that, no, I didn’t mind that she was married. I didn’t do it; the door was as closed as closed can be. I could hear them murmuring conspiratorially, like husband and wife, and I recognized that love was on the other side, and I had no access to it. But the beauty of youth is that reality never quells desire, so when I entered my room I left the door ajar, in case Elizabeth suddenly decided to tiptoe across the hallway. Every now and then, I peered out, hoping to see her door slowly opening, hoping to see her lustfully scurrying my way. I was peering out for the third or fourth time when Franc strode out of the elevator, stopped at Elizabeth’s door, and knocked. She opened it, whispered something, and pointed at me. For one last delusional moment, I thought that she had called him up to ask about me—and there I stood in the crack of my door, grinning like a happy dog. Franc charged over and pushed my door open. With a flashing swing of his hand from his hip to my face, he slapped me. My cheek burned, my eyes filled with fiery tears. I retreated toward the bed, stumbled, and fell on the floor. Franc kicked me and kept kicking me: I felt the tip of his shoe sinking into the flesh of my buttocks and thighs, then pounding against my ribs and coccyx. The floor stank of machine oil. Franc didn’t kick me in the face, although he could have. He spat not on me but on the floor next to me. He didn’t yell; he just snarled and growled. The rapid fire of kicks, it seemed, was not easy on him; when he finally stopped, he was panting. As he left, he calmly told me that if he heard the tiniest peep out of me he would beat me to a pulp and pull me by my ears onto the street and let the police have fun with me all night long. He was a good, if unpleasant, man, Franc was. He even slowly, carefully closed the door behind him. I lay in the dark, unable to move, and finally fell asleep. The fluorescent lights in the hall hummed; the elevator thudded going up, coming down. I dreamed of war, of might and right, of utterly unforeseeable logic. I woke up wishing I were home, waking to the smell of French toast and my father’s aftershave and my sister’s banana shampoo. The weather forecast would be on the radio (my parents liked to know the future), my sister pouting because she couldn’t listen to her music program. I would walk in and derisively submit to my mother’s kiss. Breakfast would be ready. I stood up and unpacked my mother’s chicken-and-pepper sandwich. It was stale, the peppers mushy and bitter. I turned on the lights, found my notebook, and, after staring at the blank page for a long time, I wrote a poem called “Love and Obstacles.” The first lines were: “There are walls between the world and me, / and I have to walk through them to get to you.” My body coated in a dull, bruised pain, I went to the store and delivered the money to Stanko. He had a steel-wool beard, and the veins bulged on his hands as he counted and recounted the money. I was short a few dinars and told him that I had been robbed on the train: two brazen criminals had emptied my pockets but had failed to find the rest of the money in my bag. Stanko stared at me until he believed me, then shook his head, appalled at a world that stole from its children. He made a note on the form in front of him, then showed me where to sign. He shook my hand earnestly and heartily, as though congratulating me. When he offered me a cigarette, I took it and asked for another. We examined the freezer. Stanko seemed proud of it, as though he had created it himself. It was impressive: enormous, blazing white, and coffinlike in its emptiness; it smelled of clean, subzero death. It would come to us in two or three weeks, he said, and if it didn’t we should call him. I slept on the bus and I slept on the night train, waking up only when my stomach started growling, and when my body stiffened and started hurting again. I had no money to buy food, so I simply relived the chicken-and-pepper sandwich. Dawn was ascending; my compartment was freezing cold. I saw a horse grazing alone in a field, inexplicably wrapped in nylon; a copse of trees like toothpick tombstones; clouds on the horizon filled with an eternity of tears. When I arrived home, breakfast was waiting. That day, my mother washed the jeans I had worn in Murska Sobota. The pill in my pocket disintegrated—nothing was left but a nugget of foil and plastic. The freezer arrived seventeen days later. We filled it to the brim with veal and pork, lamb and beef, chicken and peppers. When the war began, in the spring of 1992, and the electricity in the city of Sarajevo was cut off, everything in the freezer thawed and rotted in less than a week. 
The Best Year of My Life I got the appalling news as the whole family watched, all of them chewing and gabbling at the kitchen table, near where the phone hung on the wall. It was a few days before Christmas, so everyone was at home, all six of my siblings, the entire cast assembled at the footlights for this—not tragedy, since tragedy seldom visits the young—this cruel farce. I had just turned nineteen. So the best year of my life began in the worst way, further proof of the sadism of fate, which only served to convince me that someone somewhere was enjoying my pain—a merciless plotter, perhaps one of Mother’s wickeder allies, if not Mother herself. “It’s for you,” Mother said, handing me the receiver. My whole life was about to change: I was going to step into a hole and spend a year in the dark. Typical, I thought, for my life as I lived it then—in bewilderment, frowning at the futility and resenting the squandered time as it unrolled and flapped around me—seemed ragged and plotless: random, rancorous, out of my control, meandering from disorder to chaos, in the general direction of oblivion. In retrospect, from the vantage point of late middle age—from the helpful heights and clear air that are part of aging’s greatest consolations—I see that my life was in fact closely plotted and consequential, with the structural elaboration and subtle motifs of a Victorian novel, interwoven with grace notes, subplots, and coincidences that stretched credulity and yet were inevitable. This life of mine—perhaps all lives?—suffered from an excess of design: nothing was random, nothing wasted. The hole I’d stepped into was a magical thoroughfare that carried me to the future. Though, as I say, at the time it all appeared to be an aimless monochrome of regret and shame, wrong turns and pointless effort. Whatever befell me, my mother’s shrill cry was always: It’s your own goddam fault! That blame rang in my head for years. Decades after this particular disgrace, when other troubles came my way, I was able to say, “I’ve seen worse”—and really mean it. Much worse than being thirty, with a wife and two small children and no money and recently fired from my teaching job in Singapore, struggling to find a house to live in; worse than being fucked up and far from home in India, or lost in China, or hard up and buried alive in London; worse than being cuckolded; worse than hearing “I’m leaving you and I’ve found someone else” in a stifling and pissy phone booth on a crackling receiver stinking of cigarettes; worse than the miserable litigation of (so it seemed) the death sentence of divorce, or losing that house I had struggled to find earlier in this paragraph; worse still than the loss of my father, for an old man’s death is a natural process, even if it has been hastened by a nagging wife and a quarrelling family—worse than anything I was ever to know. This disgrace was entirely a young man’s stupidity, as Mother was to remind me again and again: all my own goddam fault. That year, I was at college in Amherst most of the time, but back home in Medford for vacations, still one of the family, working to pay my way through tuition bills, travel bills, food bills, room bills. “It’s for you,” Mother said again, angry now, because in my reverie I had not taken the phone from her. No matter who was closest to the phone, Mother, our gatekeeper, was the one who answered it. All calls were routed through her, and she insisted on a short cord to keep us visible and audible when we were speaking. “A girl,” Mother explained to the rest of the table. Father took his cue. He bit the meat off his fork and said, “Some dizzy blonde.” “Jay?” Mona’s voice was flattened, drained of vitality, but with an insinuating weight to it, a desperate muscle of sound, commanding me to listen. “Hi, there,” I said cheerily, to throw my family off, because all eight of them were holding their knives and forks upright, no longer chewing, so that they could hear better. “I missed my period. It’s been three weeks. I don’t know what to do. I’m a wreck”—her voice began to falter and break—“and you don’t even care!” “Yes,” I said, my voice high and insincere, “I do,” and I could see Mother squinting at me, “as a matter of fact.” I stayed jaunty for the sake of the table. “I’ll see you in a few days.” “No! Tomorrow! It has to be tomorrow. This is serious.” Mona began to cry, snorting and croaking in a way that stung my ear and rang against the fragile skull box of my brain. As I hung up, cutting off Mona’s yell of complaint, I prepared a smile for the table, and turned to their silent faces. Even four-year-old Gilbert had stopped yammering. My eyes were glazed. I shrugged fatuously. “Who was that?” Mother asked. “Nobody you know,” I said. “Nobody special.” Floyd said, “Oh, sure. I believe that. Indubitably.” “Jay’s got a girlfriend,” Hubby said, in the slow husky voice of a young boy with a throat full of food. “And I know why.” Fat Franny, who often asked Mother’s questions for her, said, “Why?” “So he can look at her panties.” Rose said, “Don’t be fresh.” Mother smiled grimly at Father. “Are you going to let him get away with that insolence?” Father set down his fork with a click, and swung. Both Fred and Floyd leaned back out of the way as Father caught Hubby’s head with the meat of his hand, knocking him sideways off his chair. As the blow connected, Father, overtaken by pity, reached for Hubby’s arm to break his fall, but in his frantic clumsiness crushed him against the radiator instead, so that Hubby scorched his arm and howled. “Kids wreck a marriage,” Father said, for Mother’s sake. “Eat,” Mother said to me, because I was goggling at Hubby’s reddened arm. “Your dinner’s getting cold.” In a moralizing voice, Fred, the eldest, said, “I always tell people not to call me at mealtime.” “That’s the way it should be,” Mother said. I had the sense that they suspected something, that the panic and shame showed on my face. But, really, it was all too dreadful for even my family to guess. Nobody special, I had said; and in fact Mona had become nobody special. Until I heard her voice on the phone, she had almost faded from my mind. A month or so before, I’d seen her for what I thought would be the last time. She lived in a rented room in a big frame house near the center of town, across the road from Emily Dickinson’s house. Our relationship was ending, and I’d visited her to say goodbye. We’d made love, in a joyless ceremony of farewell. I was so inept a lover that I never feared the worst. Pregnancies, I felt, were the result of passion and experience; I was too tentative and unconfident to accomplish such a thing, barely penetrating Mona while she squirmed in frustration, as though I were merely chafing at her, approximating the act. I’d first noticed Mona the previous spring, walking through the cafeteria, dressed like a scullery maid in a brown uniform and cap and an apron. Later, I saw her behind the counter, serving mashed potatoes with her right hand, ladling gravy with her left. The diners were all, like me, dormitory students. I loved her simple scowling good looks, the loose lock of blond hair at the rim of her cap, her neat narrow nose and skeptical lips, skinny shoulders, and thin fingers. She was beautiful. I took her for an unimpressed townie. Such a person could seem to me aloof and unapproachable; even a dishwasher could strike me as haughty. I had no idea that Mona was actually an honors student, a junior, two years older than me. I watched her at the cafeteria for a month or more, but never saw her smile. I found her sulks arousing. Then one night I saw her in a bar—she was drinking with friends—and I got up the nerve to speak to her. Her friends left. Drinking seemed to make us equals. She said, “You think you’re so smart,” when I expressed an opinion—I was quoting “Les Fleurs du Mal”; Baudelaire was my hero then. But she liked the fact that I worked weekends at the university chicken farm, scraping and hosing down the cages. “Everyone else is at the football game,” she said, sharing her contempt with me. I could see that, for all her severity, she was on my side, a fellow-worker, paying her own way, and perhaps even oppressed by a mother like mine. A week or so later, she sneaked me into her room. We lay on her bed, looking at Emily Dickinson’s house, and I recited “Wild Nights—Wild Nights!” We made love. She could tell that I was new to the act. When she found out how old I was, she berated me—she had been drinking—for having deceived her. Still, we met in her room a few more times before deciding not to see each other again. That was before Thanksgiving. Now it was almost Christmas, which was why the phone call (“I missed my period”) had been so unexpected. Mona’s family lived in another suburb of Boston, a long slow bus ride through streets of dirty ice and soot-crusted snow. As soon as I arrived, she said, “I haven’t told anyone. I can’t tell my parents—they’d kill me. You’re the only person who knows. You have to help me.” This desperate little speech became an unwelcome refrain. Each time she called—which was almost every day (“It’s her again,” Mother intoned)—I hoped for her to say, “At last!” But she never did. Her frequent letters (“Another one for you,” Mother said. “Is it her?”) were long and gloomy, accusatory and self-lacerating. Why did I ever let myself get involved with an upstart like you? I was still technically a teen-ager. Baudelaire mocked me with his cynical worldliness. I burned Mona’s letters. Weeks passed. It was January, and Mona was two months along. Still, every phone call or letter raised my hopes and in the same instant sank them. I was back in my dorm room. I woke up each morning dazed and sometimes happy, believing for a brief moment that my predicament had been only a bad dream; I prayed for good news, but nothing changed. And it was worse for Mona by far. I was her only confidant, the only person who could share the burden of her misery. My brother Fred was in law school in New York City. New York was the wider world, I told myself; people had the solutions to pregnancies there. I visited him in February, staying at his apartment and going to doctors’ offices—just dropping in. Do you have an appointment? I had no idea how these things worked; I knew that abortion was illegal. I never saw a doctor, which was probably a good thing, because how would I have asked the crucial question? “Oh, God,” Fred said, when I finally confessed. “Oh, Jesus.” He held his head. His wavy Brylcreemed hair looked frivolous in his whitened fingers. He said, “You’ll have to tell Dad and Ma.” “No,” I said. Fred’s gasping panic frightened me. “They won’t be able to help. They won’t know what to do. They’ll go nuts.” I could already hear them. I knew every word of accusation they would utter. Inert, scandalized, feeling complicit because he knew everything, Fred demanded that I leave New York. Though I was hurt, I was not surprised. This was my problem. And, besides, it was painful being in New York, among the rich, whom I envied and hated, for being able to solve problems like mine with just a wink and an envelope full of money. Sometime in March, I moved in to Mona’s little off-campus room. She was kinder to me than she had been before. She said, “I need you now. See me through this and I’ll never ask anything more of you. Do you understand? I don’t want to marry you. I just want to have the baby.” “And then what?” “Give it away,” she said, blinking at her tears. “Put it up for adoption. There are agencies.” I was not shocked. This was a simple desperate act, like a crime. The main problem was how to get away with it. Mona pushed her knuckles against her eyes and became stern. “If my family finds out, I’m dead.” Mona stopped going to classes. She got a job at a greenhouse in the countryside beyond campus, growing roses. In this way, she kept out of sight. I studied, I did my work, I grew to hate Baudelaire, and I worried all day. Though I still attended lectures and wrote papers and read the required books, I did so in a detached, almost disembodied way, as another person—younger and much simpler than the fellow who woke appalled each day and comforted Mona. Writing home, repeating platitudes about the weather and my studies, I was someone else again, guarded, and yet an earnest member of the family. That was three people. But I was another man, too: the asparagus picker. I got a job on a work crew for the asparagus harvest. I’d heard about this opportunity from another hard-up student and was welcomed by the farmer, who needed men. The crop was early, and it looked strange to me. Eight-inch spears of asparagus had appeared in clusters all over the wide, bare fields—no leaves, no foliage, just slender, sharp-pointed shoots. I crouched with a dozen field hands, poking my cutter into the earth, severing the spears a few inches below ground level. All the other men were Spanish-speaking, most of them young. They cut the asparagus, muttering to one another, sometimes laughing, as they loaded the boxes and swung them onto the flatbed of the trailer. They did not talk to me except when we were in the back of the truck, riding to a new field. Then they told me that they were from Puerto Rico and that they spent eight months of the year as migrants, moving slowly north from Florida and Georgia, harvesting whatever was ripe—oranges, peaches, blueberries, sweet corn, tomatoes. They were polite, even pleasant, to me when they found out that I could speak some Spanish. The sunny Puerto Rico they evoked seemed remote and exotic. They cut cane and picked pineapples there. They missed their wives and girlfriends, they said. In September or October, they would go back with the money they’d earned. “Isla bonita,” I said. “Isla barata! ” one man replied. And the others chipped in, giving me examples of how cheap it was to live in Puerto Rico. I picked asparagus every morning for three weeks, until, in mid-May, Mona, who was swollen and obviously pregnant, said, “My parents are asking when I’m coming home. They might visit. We have to get out of here.” We took a bus to New York, where I phoned Fred. I had not dared to call ahead, fearing that he would have time to think of an excuse to rebuff us. We had nowhere else to go. Two days there proved to me that Fred didn’t want us. He did not want to know so much. He was fretting again, worrying me with his fear. He said, “See, what you need is a plan.” I saw a sign in a store window: “San Juan $49.” It seemed simple. I had the money. I remembered all the shouts of “Más barata.” We flew to Puerto Rico and stayed at a cheap hotel for the first few nights, then got a room with a balcony in a tall house in Old San Juan. Though it had been a rash decision, it seemed workable. We felt safe on this island; it was as though we had dreamed it. It was my first experience of the way travel can turn you into a new person. Away from Fred and our families, we felt older, independent, unobserved. By leaving we had removed ourselves from a dreary reality of intrusions into our world. When people ask you questions you can’t answer, I thought, find new people. We were almost happy in our remoteness, among people who seemed worse off than we were, in a disorderly place that matched my mood. We had enough money to last a month. In the meantime, I would look for a job. “I’m working on a freighter,” I wrote home. “We’ve just docked in San Juan. I’ll be home in August or September.” That was yet another person: the deckhand. Mother accepted this lame explanation. Because I was not asking her for anything, she was complacent, or perhaps she was preoccupied—all those children. She had little curiosity about me. She was probably just reassured to hear that I was taking care of myself. The Caribe Hilton in Puerta de Tierra was looking for help. I applied for a job as a lifeguard, but when the personnel officer heard me speak English he suggested that I apply to the restaurant instead. The customers were mostly English-speaking tourists. I got the job. I worked from six in the evening until midnight, when I took the bus back to Old San Juan. Now I had a salary. Mona signed up for Spanish classes. She was too big, too hot, too uncomfortable to attempt more than that. The Puerto Ricans were kind to us. They had two faces: the dutiful solemn and submissive one they presented to gringos—“Anything you say, boss!” (I recognized this from the asparagus fields)—and the noisy, mischievous, helpful face they saved for one another. They treated Mona and me as members of the family. Accustomed to messy problems, they did not ask for explanations. I was grateful, though it took me a while to understand that the reason they were kind was that they saw a young pale pregnant woman and an even younger man—probably not her husband—riding the buses, sitting in the plaza, coming in and out of the stairway of an old building near the expensive restaurant La Zaragozana, where we never ate. They sympathized. My family believed that I was working on a ship. Mona had told her family that she was teaching school in New York City. No one would find out the truth. We were too far away. Mona’s mail was sent care of Fred, who forwarded it to her in weekly bundles. And so two months passed. The strangeness of San Juan consoled me. The Puerto Ricans took us on faith: not a single soul knew us. I loved that anonymity, which was also a sort of innocence. Here I was just a skinny boy who lived in a room on Calle San Francisco, with a pregnant young woman, and who set off from the plaza at five every evening on the bus to Isla Verde and the Caribe Hilton. We ate soup from a can at almost every meal. At night, when we switched on the light, glossy purplish cockroaches scuttled across the floor. Dust and noise filled the air; the street seemed to pass through the tall windows of our room; even the sea brimmed at our windows. But no one knew us, so there was no shame, only the tedious struggle we shared with everyone else. Now and then it rained hard—brief summer downpours. I carried an umbrella and wore a panama hat—these were affectations; I was pretending to be seedy. I was reading Graham Greene and Lawrence Durrell. I learned enough Spanish that I seldom needed to speak English. I practiced the Puerto Rican accent, swallowing the “s,” meemo for mismo, and chewing the “y,” joe for yo. I felt that no one saw me until I got to the restaurant, and I discovered that I was almost invisible there, too: I was just a uniform jacket and shirt and bow tie. My job was to take reservations on the phone, to show diners to their tables, to distribute menus, to wish them a pleasant evening. For this I was paid enough to cover the rent and food for Mona and me, and to put a little extra away for our return. Now I understood how a rash decision could become a whole, irreversible life. Mona weakened, as though her pregnancy were an illness, and she looked at our little room with homesick eyes. She woke in the middle of the night and sobbed. Her ankles swelled. She developed heat rash. Now and then she raged at me, “How did I ever get involved with you!” Or she said, “You are all I have. Please don’t leave me. Just see me through to the end.” These were like lines in a play I had wandered into, one of those anxious dreams from the deep end. And, as in one of those dreams, where everything that occurs is unexpected yet absurdly logical, I seemed to be leading someone else’s life. One day, I was late for work. I said to the restaurant manager, “I’m sorry I’m late. My wife is sick—she’s pregnant.” He was from Peru and his beaky nose and hard jaw and hooded eyes gave him the look of an Inca chief. He stared at me with a seriousness that made me uncomfortable. Then he tapped my shoulder. “Don’t say ‘I’m sorry.’ Never say sorry.” He wagged his finger. “A man doesn’t say sorry.” A few days later he said, “How is your wife? Better, I hope.” I gave him an answer but did not know what I was saying or who was speaking. I thought, I am whoever you take me to be. I am living five lives at once, and in one of them, of course, I am also working on a freighter. None of these lives represented the person I knew myself to be. Mona and I saved whatever we could, so we had no spare money. We were like everyone else we saw in San Juan: walking, riding the bus, eating the deep-fried meat pies they called pastelillos, treating ourselves to ice cream, going to bed early. We had no telephone, no radio. The TV in the bar on the corner was tuned to soccer and boxing matches. We never read the newspaper, though I sometimes glanced at the headlines in the daily El Imparcial. We had no idea what was happening in the world beyond Puerto Rico. One day, the landlady told us that the dictator Trujillo had been assassinated in Santo Domingo, and the drama of this news made our nearby plaza festive with the laughter of chattering men. I grew fond of the disorder that concealed us, the friendly crowds, the narrow sidewalks, even the heat and the sunshine that seemed to soothe people and soften their mood. I was at home amid the cracked yellow stucco, the scrawled-on walls, in the slum beyond the battlements of the city wall called La Perla—the Pearl—where people were much worse off than we were: barefoot children, ragged women, drunken men. One day, I saw a man I recognized from a provocative political lecture he had given in Amherst, at the time when Mona and I were living together there. He was William Sloane Coffin, a well-known radical, walking with two other men. They pushed past us, talking, and entered La Zaragozana, and, because that was a restaurant we couldn’t afford, I stopped viewing him as a radical. He was a privileged man from the other world. I wrote a few more dispatches home, explaining that my ship, the freighter, was in port. I fictionalized myself as a seaman, all of the details secondhand from my reading of Kerouac. Mona wrote regularly to her family, sending the letters to Fred, who stamped and mailed them. And every morning I woke up from a deep sleep with a film of damp heat on my face and remembered that I was living with Mona, who was pregnant, in a room in Old San Juan, and that I was due at work at the Hilton at five-thirty; and I went numb, thinking, Hold on, stay calm, the days are passing, no one knows. There was a baby in Mona; there was a darkness inside me, and a woeful weight on my soul. My thoughts were for Mona and myself, but the woe was: my family must not find out about this shameful wicked business. Mona was obsessed by the same need for concealment. This need made us quieter, gentler with each other, like a pair of felons, moving with stealth, lying low to avoid detection: fugitives from justice. We never ceased to think of ourselves as sneaks, and though we talked about the pregnancy, we seldom spoke of the baby, except as a problem we were trying to solve. One day in August, Mona got a letter from an agency in Boston with the pitiful name the Home for Little Wanderers. The message was that they would accept Mona, see her through the birth of the baby, and then take the child. Hopeful families were waiting for such children. Please rest assured that we will find a loving home for your child. Mona cried at the letter, but admitted that it was what she wanted: a relief. She woke that night sobbing, because she had just realized that since we both wore glasses the child would have bad eyes. The thought of sending this myopic child groping into a world of strangers was unbearable. We bought tickets to Boston. I told the Peruvian manager that I would be leaving. He said, “Just as I was getting used to you.” “Lo siento,” I said, as a joke. A few days before we left San Juan, the landlady handed us a letter with an American stamp and the Calle San Francisco address—not a letter forwarded from Fred. It was from Mona’s mother. “We know everything,” it began. Mona’s father had gone to New York, to Fred’s apartment. He had asked to see his daughter. Fred had told him the whole story and then given him our address. “Dad’s on the warpath,” Mona’s mother wrote, “and so is Jay’s family. I had a long talk with them.” The next days were tense. We half expected Mona’s father to descend on us. But of course we were too far away. Going to San Juan had been a leap in the dark, but it had saved us. No one came. We left for Boston one hot night. We had taken all our things—pots, towels, sheets—to La Perla, and put them in the arms of a grateful woman. Mona sat awkwardly on the plane, eight months pregnant. We arrived in Boston at dawn, and had breakfast in a diner on Boylston Street, then walked into the Public Garden. I had got used to walking very slowly with Mona at my side. Mona said that she felt sick. She sat down on a bench and vomited onto the grass. I held her as she wiped her mouth on my shoulder. And she leaned against me, heavy with trust and resignation. We were like lovers on that hot August morning. At nine o’clock, we walked to the street and hailed a cab. “Don’t come with me,” she said. She was sparing me. She got in and told the driver to take her to the Home for Little Wanderers. “Joy Street,” she added. The names snatched at my heart. I called home from a phone booth at Sullivan Square, and took the bus to Elm Street, walking up the long hill to my house, dizzy from the heat and my sleepless night on the plane. From all my other lives, I was returning to the one that I hated, and I dreaded what was to come. With heavy feet I scuffed up the wooden stairs to the porch, announcing myself on the planks. The front door was open. No one came to greet me. The screen door slapped shut on its spring, the coil lashing the doorframe. I was aware of the wooden steps, the wooden porch, the wooden door as the splintery portal to the Day of Judgment. “In here,” Mother called from the kitchen. She was seated grimly with her arms on the kitchen table. Floyd sat in a chair at the far wall, trying not to smile, though he did so, horribly, half gloating, half in pity. Then he crept out of the room, and his eyes said, You’re in for it. Mother’s face was hawklike, her nose pinched, her lips compressed. “Well!” She seemed to be staring me down, and at last she said, with a screech of triumphant sarcasm, “I hope you’re proud of yourself.” I hung my head as she berated me. “And look at your jacket.” She scowled at the vomit stain on my shoulder. The next days and weeks were easier, because Mona and I had managed to conceal the final deceits of our crime—we ourselves thought of it that way; it was something much worse than an error. Only I knew where she was, and I visited her secretly. She was impatient; holding my hand, she said, “I think it’ll be soon.” The family that would adopt the child took her to the hospital for the birth—it was a boy. I visited her, I held the baby—a boy with a reddened and contented face. The second time I went to the hospital, Mona said, “The other mothers were laughing after you left. They said, ‘How old is he? He’s just a kid!’ ” I saw the baby only once. And I did not see Mona again until after she had left the hospital. It was late September and we were back in Amherst, two students again, altered, burdened with the sad story of a lost boy which we could not tell anyone. I was sad but relieved; Mona was simply sad. Some nights she begged me to come to her room, just to hold her while she sobbed. We lay clothed in her narrow bed. I turned twenty. Mona graduated early, in January, and went away to teach. She wrote a few times, then stopped writing altogether. I somehow knew that I would never again feel so desperate, so despised, so weak and blamed as I had that year. And I was right. The experience did not make me strong but it gave me a vivid memory of helplessness that I carried with me through my life, a reference point for any other hardship I faced. Sometimes, in a dilemma, I smiled. Someone would say to me, “You’re not going to like what I’m about to tell you.” But, remembering that year, I knew that I could take it. As for the child, wherever he was, he was better off. Now and then I dreamed that he had found me, and cornered me, and was screaming at me for what I had done—for the fate that I had assigned to him. Sometimes people speak of an illness they had in childhood, when they read a great deal or learned a language, or of how they gained a skill after a terrible accident. It was like that. I had learned to live by my wits: to survive, to trust my instincts, to be secretive. I knew that my life was elsewhere. I had been right to suspect, long before Mona’s first phone call, that I could not rely on my family, that whatever they knew of me they would use against me, to undermine me. Afterward, I never went into details with anyone. I could not bear to. The worst year of my life, I used to moan, but as time passed I grew to know it, for all its struggle, as a great year. This whole plot—the beginning, the middle, and the end—had been lived before by others, but I had had to live through it myself to understand it, to know that agony can be an analgesic, that the memory of pain can itself be a painkiller. That year made the rest of my life easier. 
The God of War Ares couldn’t help himself. He’d be standing in the circle, waiting for big Ernesto and the opposing oversized twelve-year-old center to fight it out for the jump ball, and he’d find himself yelling, “Irritation!” or “Horrible lack of judgment!,” and the boy’s hand would reach into the air a millisecond too late, by which time Ernesto would have slapped the ball halfway down the court with his big paw. Or, when the teams were lined up for a free throw, Ares would repeat the word “shame” in a low hiss until it sounded as though the nearby Salton Sea had broken its bounds and was roaring beneath the basketball court. After a game during which Ares had flustered another player by screaming “Nightmarish thoughts!” just as the boy was about to dunk the ball and pull his team to a two-point lead, Coach Ortega called him in for a man-to-man sit-down talk. It wasn’t the kind of talk that Ares had seen in after-school movies on TV, the kind where the coach turns a messed-up kid’s life around with one meaningful sentence and a slightly too hard chuck on the shoulder. “What the hell are you saying out there? What the hell is wrong with you?” Ortega said, and Ares got the feeling that if he had just yelled something about somebody’s mother eating worms he wouldn’t be sitting in the locker room after everyone else had gone home. But then his coach launched into something about respect and sportsmanship and how he had given Ares a chance on the team even though Ares wasn’t particularly good at basketball and how Ares had let him down. How it wasn’t just Ares who had to be embarrassed—Ortega had to be embarrassed as well, because of his horrible lack of judgment. Ares felt the truth of the words like a river of warm shame coursing through his chest. It was a good feeling. Shame was as familiar and comforting as the pillow on his bed, which was emaciated and full of years of his own smell, and which he could not sleep without. “Just cut it out, baby,” Laurel said gently that night, after Ares had told her about the coach’s talk. He had a habit of telling his mother all the bad things he did. He was like a dog in this way, showing up at the door with a half-chewed rat in its mouth, asking for approval. “You know what’s right.” “O.K.,” Ares said, deflated. Something about his mother’s care seemed uncaring. There was too much acceptance in it, a disarming lack of judgment. She was stuffing a raw chicken with lemon halves and rubbing oil on its pimpled skin. Ares watched her hands. They were big, strong, and bumpy with knuckles. They spent their days rubbing and kneading the backs of her massage clients at a spa in Palm Desert. He couldn’t imagine touching all those strangers, patting and slapping them like the chicken she was handling now. He waited for her to say something more, but her head was tilted to the side as she focussed on the back of a box of couscous. Her reddish hair covered her face. When she tried to pour the grains into a measuring cup, pellets flew across the countertop and onto the floor. Malcolm let out his weird backward laugh, making the sound on the inhale, so that a stranger might have thought he was choking. He was five and did not talk. Or, as Laurel liked to say, he “chose silence.” He also chose to organize all the videos according to which movie studio made them, and to pile up books in order of size, largest to smallest, then stack them around the main room of the trailer: literary pyramids. Instead of putting the books back on the black metal shelves she had found in a Dumpster a year earlier, Laurel simply used the structures as footstools or side tables for her smelly massage creams and clove-cigarette butts. Ares didn’t know if she left the piles in place as a gesture of support for Malcolm or because she was the kind of person who didn’t kill ants, even when they marched brazenly across the kitchen counter. Malcolm’s life was a head-bent, shoulders-hunched sidelong glance at the world. The only people he looked in the eye were Ares and Laurel. When Laurel wasn’t around, Ares sometimes showed Malcolm a treasure—half a Mars bar he’d saved from lunch, or a dollar bill—waving it before his brother’s eyes, then quickly hiding it somewhere in the trailer. Malcolm would search frantically while Ares watched, hoping that frustration and desire would compel words out of his brother’s mouth. But Malcolm eventually lost interest in the treasure hunts, or he forgot what he’d been looking for in the first place. The school had recommended that Malcolm be evaluated by a specialist. The district was obliged to offer the tests to learning-disabled kids. But Laurel had declined. She didn’t want Malcolm to be labelled. “Labels are for boxes,” she said. “So you never have to look inside them. You just say, ‘Oh, I don’t need any more of that.’ ” She wrinkled her nose and waved her hand dismissively, as though whatever that was had a terrible odor. “He’ll talk when he has something to say,” she said sometimes, as if Malcolm’s critical faculties were so sophisticated that by the age of five he had judged the world and found it unworthy of his participation. That he had missed several developmental milestones on his way to being the obtuse, angular kid he was didn’t seem to worry her. Or maybe it did worry her. This was the difficult place Ares lived in: the space between Laurel’s seeming lack of concern, which felt somehow effortful, and his absolute conviction that she blamed everything on him. “Typical,” she’d say, mimicking the politically correct lingo for normal kids that Malcolm’s special-ed teacher used. “As if being typical were something to strive for.” She liked to hold Malcolm on her lap and stroke the place on the top of his head where he’d fallen. She’d circle the spot until Malcolm’s hair became twisted around her finger. Then she’d extract her hand from the tangle and start over again. Watching her, Ares would become unbearably tense, convinced that one of these days she would come out and say what they were both thinking, what they had both been thinking non-stop for nearly five years. He waited for that moment with the kind of anticipation he felt on the slow ascent to the top of a roller coaster—knowing that what happened on the other side would be both painful and exhilarating, rich with the possibility of utter annihilation. Two days after the “nightmarish thoughts” incident, Ares took Malcolm out of class early so that the two of them could ride their bikes to the clinic for a dentist’s appointment. The other kids at school cut a wide swath around Room 23, the “ ’tard room,” as if some force inside might reach out and grab them and suck out their otherwise normal brains. Some of the boys made gooney sounds if they heard laughter coming from behind the always closed door, and Ares had more than once heard his brother referred to as a “freak.” He never defended Malcolm—a worse betrayal, he knew, than what he’d done to his brother in the first place. When he opened the door, the room felt strange. It was too warm, for one thing, and slightly muzzy; Ares felt as if he were looking through a camera lens that had not been adjusted to focus. A boy in a motorized wheelchair hung his head down over his desk in a way that did not resemble either concentration or sleep. In one corner, a teacher led a group of kids in a song that sounded like “Yesterday,” except that the words and the tune were stretched out like Play-Doh, and Ares couldn’t be sure. Malcolm sat at a desk counting paper clips and putting them into piles of twenty. “He’s smarter than those other kids,” Ares told his mother that night, after the dentist’s appointment. “He’s not learning anything in there.” “Malcolm is going to learn different things in his life than math or spelling,” she said. “For instance, right now he’s learning forbearance.” That night, Ares woke up falling. Even when his brain registered that he was secure in his bed, he continued to have the gut-inverting sensation that he had not yet landed, that the worst was yet to come. Don’t look at the clock. But it was too late. His eyes, those betrayers, shifted to the right and there was the electric-green warning—3:15. Immediately, he felt trapped in the night, and even though his mother and brother slept nearby—Laurel in her own tiny room separated from the main room by a curtain of playing cards stapled together in long strips, and Malcolm on the living-room couch, so close that Ares could have touched them if his fingers could magically pass through the laminated plywood walls of his room—he was alone. The nighttime quiet dulled the sounds of trucks and cars on the nearby highway, and the star-pocked sky obliterated the daytime lustre of golden arches and other neon enticements. Outside, there was only the desert—huge, an impermeable membrane. Panic flooded his body and he sat up. He slid open the small window. It stuttered along its bent metal runner until it stopped halfway and wouldn’t travel any farther. He inhaled deeply, smelling things he knew: the mesquite in the air, the leftover smoke of the next-door neighbor’s barbecue, the distant chemical odor of the Salton Sea. And there it was: the memory he woke with each night of his life at precisely this hour. Go away. But it insisted on itself. He lay back, a forearm slung across his eyes, and let it have its way. It was always the same. Ares is eight. Laurel has pulled off the highway into the SoCo gas station in Niland, because Malcolm has just unloaded into his diaper and something yellow and foul-smelling is leaking out onto his clothes. Even Laurel, who loves everything about this baby from his shit to his snot, can’t imagine making it home with this stench. The faded ducks on Malcolm’s onesie look as if they were swimming in pond scum. Ares slides as far away from his brother as possible in the back seat of the Toyota Corolla hatchback, but it isn’t far enough, and he starts to gag. “Oh, come on,” Laurel says. “Like you never messed your pants.” “Not like that,” Ares moans. The minute Laurel stops the car, Ares bolts and goes to stand on the concrete island between two gas pumps. He quickly scans the surroundings for the possibility of humiliation in the form of someone he knows from school. Laurel holds the baby in one arm. The travel wipes and a fresh diaper hang from her mouth like cat prey as she flips up the hatchback. She lays Malcolm on the ripped upholstery and goes to work. “He’s sick! What’s wrong with him?” Ares says when he gets a glimpse of Malcolm’s production. “It’s the heat,” Laurel says. “It’s giving him the runs.” It is late in the day; the warm air sits in place like a fat man in a lawn chair. Another five minutes, and Ares feels the kind of hot that makes him want to escape his skin. Laurel always tells him that his brown skin can withstand the desert better than her fair, freckled Irish skin, and that he should be grateful to his father for this. But Ares thinks that his skin is one more thing about his father that, as of yet, has no proven value—like his last name, Ramirez, which, along with his first name, serves as an instant invitation to ridicule. He is sure that his father, whoever he is, had no say in choosing the first name, especially since, according to Laurel, he had gone back to Peru by the time Ares was born. Laurel carries the freshly changed Malcolm toward Ares, holding the befouled diaper before her like a gift. “Are you kidding me?” Ares says, backing away. “Can you just help me, please, and throw this out?” She gestures with her chin toward the garbage can that sits on the other side of the island. “I’ll take him,” Ares says. “Jesus,” Laurel sighs. “It’s just the body, honey. Everyone poops.” She shifts Malcolm into Ares’s arms and throws the diaper into the can, where it floats above the rim like a small iceberg on the lake of crushed taco wrappers and cellophane torn from cigarette packs. Ares is hoping that they will leave as quickly as possible so that no one will be able to associate them with this embarrassing thing, but to his horror Laurel heads toward the gas station’s convenience store. Ares looks after her, seized with the fear he often has that she is walking away forever. His mother is a conditional concept. But he is holding the baby, and she loves the baby, who is brown, too, darker than Ares, and looks like a Cahuilla Indian because that’s what his father, whom Malcolm has never met, either, is. She loves this baby, and she stares into his eyes as if she were looking for a secret message in those black-bean irises, something that will tell her what comes next. She smells his skin and licks his hands and trims his fingernails with her teeth. Ares can’t remember if she treated him with the same intensity when he was a baby. He is both horrified at the thought and desperate for it to be true. Malcolm starts to squirm in Ares’s arms. Ares bounces him up and down, trying to settle him, but Malcolm is getting frantic, looking over Ares’s shoulder, and then twisting himself around so that he can look the other way. “She’s coming back,” Ares whispers into Malcolm’s sweaty neck. He makes shushing noises and even starts to sing whatever he can remember of the Barney song, looking around to make sure that no one hears him, because he has enough problems in school, with the kids asking him is he, like, a horoscope sign or something? He tells them he is the god of war, which makes them laugh but then grow glum, because they see him reading books in the hallway during recess, and they suspect that he’s playing with their ignorance. That’s when they get angry and start punching. Malcolm screams, and even though Ares sings louder and switches to the SpongeBob theme song, which Malcolm loves so much that he rocks back and forth in his ExerSaucer like a spaz when the show comes on, the kid isn’t having any comfort. He starts to kick Ares in the stomach. He’s strong, and one kick lands right below Ares’s ribs and, for a second, takes his breath away. Ares tells Malcolm to cut it out or else, and Malcolm puts his fat hands on Ares’s chest and pushes himself away hard, and Ares drops him. Malcolm goes down like a medicine ball. Ares hears the thud of his body as it hits the concrete before rolling lazily off the lip of the island onto the cracked pavement beside the wheels of the car. Next, the most terrifying thing happens: nothing. Malcolm doesn’t move. He doesn’t make a sound. It’s as if someone had pressed the pause button on the universe and everything stood still. Ares can’t hear the cars passing on the highway, or the sounds of the construction equipment going full tilt behind the convenience store. All he hears is the inside of his head, which sounds like water echoing through a pipe. Then the finger lets go of the button and everything starts up at once—Malcolm screaming, Laurel running and yelling things that don’t sound like words, her arms pushing Ares out of the way, the fat guy from the convenience store running from side to side, his red company vest flapping like useless wings. He screams, “Nine-one-one!,” turns around, and does his jig back to the store while Laurel shouts, “No! No!,” and gets into the car and starts the engine, not even stopping to put Malcolm in his car seat but holding him on her lap, one hand pressing him to her chest, so that a flower of blood appears on her shirt, the other gripping the wheel. She pulls out of the gas station so fast that the door closes on its own, trapping the end of her patterned skirt so that it waves back and forth as if bidding Ares goodbye. And Ares, because he doesn’t yet understand what’s going on, lifts his hand in response and waves to the Corolla as it disappears into its own cloud of desert dust. Later, Victor, the convenience-store guy, drives Ares to Indio in his white Dodge Ram Charger tricked out with extra-large wheels. Ares knows that it’s wrong to be excited to be in such a truck, but its height makes him giddy with a sense of power and safety that he rarely ever feels down below. The hospital is the newest, cleanest place for miles. Ares feels like a smudge. Everything is quiet, and the nurses and orderlies move as though they weren’t sure the hospital was theirs to keep. A nurse tells Victor to wait—the doctor will be out soon to talk to him and his son, at which point Victor gets nervous, and he tells the nurse that he doesn’t even know this kid, really, and he’d better get back to work before he gets fired. “Just”—he says, turning to Ares, his fleshy face settling into a perplexed look as he searches for something important to say—“don’t move.” In the waiting room, the television hangs like a loose tooth from the ceiling. A Spanish-language soap opera plays without sound. A man and a woman stare silently at the TV. He holds a blood-soaked blue-and-white checked kitchen towel to his head. They look calm, and it occurs to Ares that the woman is the reason for all the blood. It’s something about the way she won’t look the man in the eye when she tends to his wound, and the way he pats her hand, as if to let her off the hook. There is forgiveness in the way they are together. Ares tries to read one of the wrinkled car magazines that lie on empty chairs around him, but he can’t keep himself from worrying about what his life is going to be like now that he has dropped his brother. Maybe Laurel will try to find his father and hand him over, even though she says she has no idea where the man is, and he was no one special to her anyway. Or maybe she will turn Ares in to the police and he will have to go to juvenile, like Rudolpho from the fifth grade, who set fire to the cactus garden after the whole school had come in on a Saturday to plant it for Pride Day. After a couple of hours, Laurel comes through the swinging double doors that separate the waiting room from the rest of the hospital. A nurse follows her, carrying something that looks like a huge roll of toilet paper; Ares realizes that it’s Malcolm, bandaged all over like a pathetic attempt at a Halloween mummy costume. When Laurel sees Ares, she bursts into tears and runs over to him. She pulls him out of his chair and wraps herself around him. She says, “I’m sorry. Oh, baby. I’m so, so sorry.” And, standing there with his head pressed into her soft chest, her hands stroking his head so hard that he thinks his hair may come out, he has the feeling that she is not sorry because she left him at the gas station, or because Malcolm is so banged up you can’t see his face. She is sorry because she knows that, like his skin and his name, this new fact is something that will stick with him for the rest of his life. Malcolm screamed in the night. Ares waited for the reassuring clump of Laurel’s feet hitting the floor, for the sound of the card curtain fluttering noisily apart, for her groggy, soothing voice to calm Malcolm down. But then Malcolm screamed again. “Mom!” Ares yelled, stumbling out of his bed and into the living room. His underwear was twisted around his hips, and he tried to straighten it as he felt for Malcolm in the dark. Malcolm was sitting up on his couch, hitting his leg with his hand. “Spy, spy, spy,” he said. “Mom!” Ares called. Where was she? Why did he have to be the one to drag his ass out of bed in the middle of the night to take care of Malcolm? He gathered Malcolm in his arms and began to rock him, holding his brother tightly so that he couldn’t scratch or hit himself, as he’d seen Laurel do countless times. When Malcolm’s body began to relax, Ares risked letting go with one hand, and snapped on the light above Malcolm’s bed. The card curtain was open, the sweep of it pulled to one side and caught by a hook, so that it resembled a girl’s hair tucked behind an ear. Laurel was not in her bed. She was having sex with Richard, Ares thought. She’d come home at dawn, creeping into the trailer thinking that Ares had no idea she’d even been gone. This was the only information he had on her, but it was useless information, since he was sure that if he told her he knew about her nighttime journeys she’d simply smile and ruffle his hair and not even get mad. He turned his concentration back to his brother. Malcolm’s eyes were wide open, but he was in a place that was neither sleep nor wakefulness. During these night terrors, Malcolm was somehow more present than he was during the day. He’d look at Ares or Laurel as though he were about to say something, perhaps even explain what he had been thinking about all his life. But Ares knew not to make the mistake of hoping. Hope was only a selfish desire for absolution. “There’s no spider,” he said, rocking his brother, although he knew it was unlikely that Malcolm was actually talking about a spider. He was used to taking Malcolm’s sounds and gestures and inventing logic around them. That is what he and his mother did: they created Malcolm’s world for him and pretended they were right. “He wants juice,” Laurel would say if Malcolm smacked his lips in the direction of the refrigerator. But what if they were wrong? What if Malcolm wanted the opposite of juice? What if he didn’t want at all? What if the fall had knocked desire right out of him? When Malcolm’s body was no longer a heavy lump in Ares’s arms but something stiff with the architecture of will, Ares knew that the terror was coming to an end. “Hey, buddy,” Ares said. Malcolm looked toward Laurel’s room. “She’s not here right now,” Ares said. Malcolm craned his neck and looked back at Ares. “You had a dream,” Ares said, although he was sure that this was wrong. The terrors were not dreams. They were more like the moment when a cartoon character runs off a cliff—before he starts to fall; the terrors were a seizure of understanding. Ares thought that in these nocturnal moments his brother had periods of recognition, periods in which he realized that he was trapped by silence, by useless fixations, by the need to make the sound pa over and over again, or to count peas. Ares thought that if he were in his brother’s situation he’d be frightened all the time. By the time Malcolm fell asleep, Ares was fully awake. His body was wired, restless. He lay in his bed, staring at his bookshelf, another castoff that Laurel had picked up in Slab City, the old gunnery range where Richard, along with the other assorted snowbirds and wanderers, stayed every winter. Even in the dark, he could make out the dull, pseudo-gilded letters on the binding of “Gold and Gods of Peru,” a stalwart hardback among the shorter, stubbier paperbacks in his collection. It was a library book, long overdue. Two years overdue, he reminded himself, and felt the familiar pinch of guilt he experienced whenever he caught sight of the book. He had checked it out of the school library in the fourth grade in order to write a report on Peru. Somehow, he had never returned it. It wasn’t that he’d forgotten; he had thought about returning the book many times. But each time he did the idea seemed overwhelming, exhausting, as if the book weighed a hundred pounds and he would be required to carry it by himself. The book’s absence had escaped the notice of Mrs. Pearl, the school librarian, and he had so far got away without paying a fine. But this made him feel even worse. Getting away with something was worse than suffering the consequences. He was too embarrassed to go into the library anymore. He had become a reader of Dumpster literature—books that other people didn’t think were good enough to keep. In this way, he had read “Dianetics,” a biography of Dolly Parton, some pretty good espionage books, and “East of Eden,” minus twenty pages in the middle, which had been ripped out. He had thought that Laurel might say something about the Peru book, but she didn’t make a habit of engaging in Ares’s school life, and it was unlikely that she would notice the book unless Ares pointed it out to her. He reached over and took it from the shelf. A month ago, he had found out from other kids at school that Mrs. Pearl’s son had been arrested for murder. His own crime now seemed pathetic. He was an accidental book thief. Mrs. Pearl was the mother of a killer. The sound of tires crunching over the rubble driveway swelled and then stopped. The car engine cut out, and Ares heard the gentle ticking of the motor as the door squeaked open and slammed shut. He could barely hear Laurel’s entrance into the trailer. He thought about calling out, letting his mother know that he was onto her. But what if that made her stop going out? Then he would never be able to experience the relief of her return. The card curtain made a noise like a thousand tumbling dominoes as she let it fall from its hook. He carried “Gold and Gods of Peru” to school the next day, but when he approached Mrs. Pearl’s desk he couldn’t bring himself to take it out of his backpack. She looked up at him expectantly. Her hair was pulled back into a ponytail, but one strand had broken loose and she repeatedly tucked it back in, looking embarrassed, as though something more private than a lock of hair had escaped confinement. She had a round face and thin lips, and freckles spilling across the bridge of her nose. He thought she was too pretty to have a murderer for a son. She had no eyebrows, but she drew little arches above her eyes with a dark pencil, which made her look as though everything astonished her. Her nails had grown out beyond their pink polish, and little half-moons of natural color showed where the nail met the skin. Ares felt as if he were seeing a part of her that he wasn’t supposed to see. “Do you need help?” she asked. “No.” A framed picture sat on her desk. It was of a boy, smiling. He had dark hair like Mrs. Pearl, and real eyebrows. Acne had made a rutted landscape of his face. He sat in front of the familiar blue sheet that the school photographers hung on the gym wall when they came for photo day. He was looking off to the side and up, as if trying to think of something. The name of the photographer was embossed in gold across the bottom of the photo. You could get the photo without the name on it, but that cost extra. Like his mother, he supposed, Mrs. Pearl had just kept the proof copy and thrown out the order form. Ares had heard the talk about Mrs. Pearl’s son, but there were many different stories: he had murdered someone in a botched holdup at a convenience store; or he was part of the gang that had been terrorizing towns around the Salton Sea. No one really knew what was true, but each kid pronounced his version of events with grave certainty, thrilled, for a moment, to be the one everyone else looked to for the truth. The photo on Mrs. Pearl’s desk was in a heavy brown frame decorated with painted flowers. The words “For Mom” were stencilled on one of the petals. Ares knew that inmates made license plates, and he wondered if they made picture frames, too. Mrs. Pearl saw where Ares’s gaze had fallen. “There’s a sign-up sheet for the computer,” she said, pointing to an adjacent wall. “I don’t need a computer,” he said. She waited for him to state his purpose. When he remained silent, she sighed and looked mildly annoyed: another kid ruining her day. He left the library. That afternoon, Ares’s team played a team from Indio. Ares ran past the best player on the team and whispered “Typical” three times. The shooter missed, but Ares’s team lost anyway. Malcolm and Ares biked past the Gunnery Range checkpoint station. It was abandoned, but a beer can stood on the window ledge. Teen-agers came out here to drink and get high. Every so often, the cops would do a sweep, and then there would be an assembly about “Just say no.” Ares and Malcolm rode past the station and on into Slab City, past the bar and an advertisement for a community talent show that was to take place in three weeks. Ares knew that Slab City had an unofficial mayor, and that it even had its own shortwave radio broadcast. But you had to bring in your own water and get rid of your own sewage, because Slab City wasn’t really an official city. Laurel said that none of the people there paid for the land they lived on. There were people in Slab City who had big, expensive trailers and who could afford to pay taxes and live in a place with sewage pipes and fences, but they chose not to because, she said, they were also the kind of people who liked to get away with things. The day was hot, and nobody lingered outside the trailers. Ares banged on the door of Richard’s Airstream, an aluminum tube, shaped like a cigar, its surface a patchwork of cast-off material that he cobbled together whenever the trailer needed repairs. Richard had to stoop to fit his long, narrow body inside the frame. He shaved his head, and Ares could see two thick blue veins running behind his temples. He looked out at the boys through round wire-rimmed glasses. Malcolm squawked happily. “You yell like that, someone’s liable to come out of their trailer and shoot you,” Richard said, though Ares could tell that he enjoyed Malcolm’s enthusiasm. One of Richard’s pant legs was tucked into a scuffed motorcycle boot; the other was hitched undecidedly halfway up the shank of its boot. A Chinese symbol hung from a leather thong at his neck. Richard claimed that he had once worked in Asia. He also said that he had fought, but not in a war. He was never specific about which country he had worked in or whom he had fought for, and whenever Ares tried to pin him down Richard was evasive. When Ares learned about the C.I.A., he decided that Richard must be an agent. But Laurel said that Richard wasn’t good at keeping secrets—this was how she knew that he didn’t really love her. She said she didn’t think that he was someone the government would trust. Malcolm couldn’t contain his excitement. He reached for Richard’s shirt, trying to pull him out of the trailer. “O.K., O.K.,” Richard said. “But I’m not paying this time. Business is bad.” “No fair,” Ares said. “That’s my deal,” Richard said, his voice so low it sounded as though it were rumbling from the back of a cavern. “Take it or leave it.” Malcolm loved the bumpy ride over the rock dunes. The jeep lurched forward and back and from side to side all at the same time, so that it didn’t seem as if they were actually getting anywhere. Richard huffed and groaned, his cigarette bobbing between his lips. He made a big show of effort as he shifted gears with his right hand. The long fingers of his left hand gripped the frayed plastic cover of the steering wheel. If the wheel were a person’s neck, Ares thought, that person would be dead by now. He wondered if Richard had ever killed a person with his bare hands. A few minutes later, Richard stopped the jeep, and Malcolm and Ares scrambled out and ran off into the rocky foothills. “What’s yours is mine!” Richard called after them. When Malcolm and Ares went scrapping with Richard, Richard rewarded their finds: a nickel for small scraps; a quarter for something big. Richard said that in previous years he had found bombs, and that he’d pay five dollars if the boys came up with one, but Ares had never seen a bomb, and he wasn’t sure what it would look like. Richard sold the scrap to a junker, who then sold it to a foundry in Mexico. At one time, he had been able to make a certain living off his finds—enough to carry him through a winter in the desert. But the Mexicans weren’t doing much business these days, and scrapping had become more of a way to pass time than an actual job. Richard threw a beat-up cowboy hat over his bald head, took his Geiger counter out of the jeep, and began to walk slowly. The machine gave off a soft hum that Malcolm tried to match with his own voice as he walked around in crazy eights. Ares was never sure that Malcolm understood what they were looking for; he presented rocks and pieces of metal to Richard with the same zeal. And sometimes he just wandered, head bent toward the ground, and Ares knew that he wasn’t looking for anything at all. Ares dragged his feet so that they displaced the top layer of soil. He was disappointed that Richard wasn’t going to pay them for their discoveries, and he considered blowing off the whole search. But the truth was, even without the incentive of a reward, he loved studying the ground like this, directing his gaze and his entire mind onto minute bits of earth as they passed below him. When he was with Richard, Ares didn’t think about Malcolm, or what he had done to make Malcolm the way he was. He didn’t think about his mother, his library book, or Coach Ortega. He thought about dirt. The desert ceased to be the impervious, dry expanse that it usually was. It became the world writ small, miniature valleys and mountains, square inches of variegated detail. It became a place where you could see that you were not always right about what a thing was. It gave him hope. Twenty yards from the jeep, the counter sent up a strong, insistent beep. Ares and Malcolm ran over to Richard, who stooped down, studying something on the ground. When Ares reached him, Richard held up a magazine clip. “This is a surprise,” he said. “Thought things were pretty well picked over. Unless this is new. Meth addicts killing each other with machine guns now.” He shook his head and handed the clip to Malcolm. “Put it in the box.” Malcolm held the magazine to his chest like a treasured doll and ran to the jeep. “He thinks it’s something to love,” Ares said. “He wouldn’t be the first person to love a gun, that’s for sure.” “Mom says it’s O.K., the weird stuff that he does.” “Well, the way I see it, when you’re in a place you forget what it looks like from the outside. It’s like how you never see yourself grow taller or older. You need other people to tell you the truth. That’s how we all end up living the lives we do. Nobody ever tells us what we really look like.” Ares wondered if his mother had ever told Richard about Malcolm’s fall. If Richard had been at the gas station that day, he might have caught Malcolm with his big, powerful hands. He might have saved him. An hour later, Malcolm and Ares had found nothing. Richard had found an alloy bullet casing and some random pieces of metal. After throwing his finds into the box, Richard squatted down by the back wheel of the jeep and lit another cigarette. He took off his hat and wiped the sweat from his head with his palm. Malcolm picked up the Geiger counter and walked with it, waving it over the ground. It was turned off, but Malcolm made the sound of the motor, and then such a perfect replication of the beep of discovery that Richard and Ares both looked up expectantly. “Should put that talent to good use,” Richard said, exhaling smoke. “How?” Ares said. Richard shrugged. “Decoy. Could make a person think something was there that wasn’t. You’d be shooting at a ghost.” Ares tried to figure out how this comment fit into his growing picture of Richard. Maybe he was a bounty hunter. Maybe he was a hired killer. Maybe he was a criminal, too. Malcolm ran back to the jeep grinning. Richard reached into his pocket and pulled out two dollar bills. He gave one to each boy. “You said you weren’t paying,” Ares said. “For keeping me company,” Richard said. As Ares turned his bicycle into the parking lot of the store in front of the date farm, he looked back over his shoulder to make sure that Malcolm was following him. Only a few cars were still there at the end of the day—tourists collecting their prepackaged dates for the trip home. Inside, Ares ordered two date shakes from the girl behind the deli counter; she looked like a drawing in the sex book that his mother used to keep by the side of her bed, but which was now the foundation layer of one of Malcolm’s pyramids. The girl had dark eyes rimmed with black pencil, and her mouth was full and turned up at the ends, so that even though she wasn’t smiling at Ares, even though she barely seemed to register him as she blended the shakes and yelled above the sound to the other, fatter girl behind the counter, he imagined her as one of those drawings, the outlines of her body formed from repeated strokes of a pencil. Malcolm waited outside at a picnic table, patiently ripping a paper napkin into small bits. Ares handed him the shake and, to Malcolm’s delight, blew the paper off the straw. After a few sips, Ares was sick of the oversweet shake, but Malcolm was stunned into pleasure by the drink. He didn’t take his mouth from the straw the entire time he drank, not even to breathe. Malcolm was this way with everything he did; it was as if a given activity wiped out all thought of anything else. His entire existence narrowed in on the time and the physical space of one second. And then another. Ares knew that his brother’s problem was exactly this disconcerting habit of fixating on one single, often meaningless thing to the exclusion of all other, more relevant information. But he sometimes wondered whether it would be a relief to be like Malcolm, and not have the whole army of your impulses and contradictory desires trying to crash the gates of your consciousness at once. Malcolm reached the bottom of his shake with a wet slurp. He finally took his mouth off the straw and inhaled a laugh. He peeled the plastic lid off the shake and licked the underside. “I guess you liked that,” Ares said. “Ma, ma, ma, ma,” Malcolm said. “No more.” There was no end to Malcolm’s appetite. He ate whenever food was offered to him, even if he had just had a huge meal. Laurel and Ares had learned to tell him when he was finished eating, and they were expert at distracting him so that his mind could tear itself away from the idea of food and land on a new obsession for a while. Of all Malcolm’s traits, it was this hunger that upset Ares the most. It filled him with a great nostalgic sadness for lost things, the way a rich person might feel if he had to live as a pauper, always remembering the fancy cars and clothes of a bygone life. Ares took Malcolm’s cup, replaced the top, and tossed it into the nearby garbage can. Malcolm let out a piercing scream and raced to retrieve the cup. Gently, he wiped it off. “Pop, pop, pop,” he chanted over and over. Ares knew that he would bring the cup home and add it to his menagerie of inanimate objects—rocks, sticks, empty envelopes, and soda-can pull tabs that he collected and often spoke to in strange murmurs and squeaks. On the way home, Malcolm and Ares pedalled side by side. When they saw a flock of white pelicans making their low flight toward the sea, Malcolm looked at Ares with a huge grin. “Do it, man,” Ares said, encouragingly. “Go ahead and do it.” And Malcolm let out a caw that was so exact, so piercingly beautiful, that Ares felt his heart contract. “What did he eat?” Laurel said, as she watched Malcolm bound up the trailer steps, screeching his uncanny pelican caw. Once inside, Malcolm spun around the living room, his arms spread on either side of him. “A shake,” Ares said. He knew that sugar, for Malcolm, was like a friend who was always urging you to do things that would get you into trouble. He waited for Laurel’s admonition, but it didn’t come. She simply stood, hands on hips, head tilted to one side. She watched Malcolm intently, waiting for the right moment to step in and grab him the way girls in the school playground waited to leap into the path of a swinging jump rope at exactly the right second, so that they wouldn’t trip. When she did move in, she quickly wrapped Malcolm in her arms, holding him to her body. He laughed and continued trying to flap his arms, but she had him trapped. “Let’s have a bath, baby,” she said into his hair as she moved him awkwardly toward the bathroom. “Help me with his clothes,” she called back to Ares. Ares reluctantly followed behind, reaching for Malcolm as his mother bent down to run the bath water. He grabbed Malcolm’s T-shirt. “Arms up,” he said. Malcolm didn’t obey, and instead squirmed inside Ares’s hold, grinning and laughing. “Arms up, dude,” Ares said more forcefully, frustrated by his brother, and by the obviousness of his own unmentioned mistake. “Don’t yell,” Laurel said over the sound of water slapping against the plastic-lined tub. “It doesn’t help.” Ares got the shirt up and over Malcolm’s head, then started on his jeans. He leaned down, and Malcolm draped his body over Ares’s bent back, making it nearly impossible for Ares to move or to push the pants down Malcolm’s hips. When he finally got Malcolm’s pants to his ankles, Ares sat on the floor to untie his shoes. Malcolm sat, too, and then lay back on the bathroom floor, thrilled by his nakedness. His hands went to his penis. “Cut it out, man,” Ares said. “That’s why it’s there,” Laurel said, reaching under Malcolm’s arms and lifting him up and into the tub. “Fuck!” Ares exclaimed when the splash hit his shirt and pants. “Lovely,” she said. “Sorry.” “That word coming out of those beautiful lips,” she said. “O.K., baby.” Laurel turned to Malcolm, sighing. “Want bubbles?” She showed Malcolm the nearly empty bottle capped with a plastic elephant head. Ares left the bathroom, closing the door behind him. Still, he could hear the sound of Laurel struggling to quiet Malcolm. She sang “Hush Little Baby,” and Malcolm droned along. Ares headed out of the trailer and walked to the edge of town, toward the beach. He found a fallen palm frond and dragged it close to the water. The Salton Sea, or the “sinkhole,” as he referred to it, moved listlessly in the windless early evening. A few birds alighted on its surface, floated around in the water, then took off again, like people at a drive-through. Ares remembered when he was six, a time before Malcolm, when his own arms and legs were as thin and rubbery as licorice rope. He had pleaded with Laurel to take him for a swim in “my ocean.” Then, the sinkhole had been his biggest treasure, a jewel as huge as he could imagine the world to be, its distant shore his unreachable horizon. Laurel had let him swim, although even then there were reports of fish dying, poisoned by the polluted runoff from farm irrigation that fed the sea. Ares thought that Mrs. Pearl must really love her son—to keep his high-school picture on her desk like that, where everyone could see it. Maybe she didn’t believe he was really a killer. Maybe she thought that if she took down the picture people would think that she had given up on him. Ares hoped that he wouldn’t get acne when he was older. But probably he would, since he was a thief and also a trash-talker and there had to be some kind of payback. He walked home, past the wood-frame houses and trailers, some derelict, some enlivened by cactus gardens and tangles of sagging flowers and date palms that resembled girls with long torsos and tiny heads. He passed the general store that sold cans of chili and sauerkraut, frozen dinners, emergency flashlights, and lengths of garden hose. The school bus stopped in front of the store each morning, carrying the young children to Niland and the older ones to the high school in Calipatria. By the time the bus returned each afternoon, there were only five or six kids on it. He often wondered why he and Malcolm and their mother didn’t live in Palm Springs or Palm Desert, someplace closer to his mother’s work. Laurel said it was because they owned their trailer, and she could never afford to buy property in those rich-people places. But Ares thought there were other reasons, too. The sea, that repository of crippled nature, comforted Laurel. Sometimes he saw her there in the evenings, staring out at the flat plane of water while Malcolm wandered around the shore, stooping to inspect garbage. The Salton Sea needed its champions the way stray dogs needed rescuers, people who turned up their noses at the purchase of purebreds when there were so many abandoned frightened mongrels lurking beneath underpasses and beside freeways. He wondered if his family would be able to survive anywhere else. Bombay Beach, like all the half attempts at towns nearby, was a place for people who had a provisional relationship to the world. Mecca, Niland—these towns were full of migrant laborers, drug dealers, snowbirds in their patched-together homes, like Richard. Daily, Ares watched Border Patrol cars speeding south along the highway, lights flashing self-importantly like some backward version of a police escort. Kids were pulled out of school all the time, and you never saw them again. By the time Ares got home, Malcolm was asleep. Laurel was sitting at the kitchen table, knitting a hat. “Sorry about the shake,” Ares said. “Maybe sugar isn’t such a good idea unless we’re really prepared for the consequences.” “You told me that before.” “You probably forgot.” “I didn’t forget. I remembered it the whole time.” She looked up from her knitting. “Then why’d you do it?” “I don’t know.” “Everyone messes up,” she said. “Look at me.” She held her knitting out in front of her. “I messed up this whole row. I think I dropped a stitch. There’s a big hole.” She put the knitting to her face so that her eye lined up with the gap. “I see you,” she said in a singsong voice. “Is Richard leaving soon?” She put down the knitting. “It’s almost June. Pretty late for him to be hanging around, isn’t it?” “Maybe he’s going to stay.” “Richard?” she said, laughing lightly. “No, no, no. He’s not a stayer.” “Like you?” “Me? Where would I go?” He shrugged. “Nowhere.” “Nowhere that doesn’t include my guys,” she said, beginning to unravel a row of knitting. “Don’t talk. I have to concentrate now.” That night, he woke up to the sound of a siren. He listened until its notes had been swallowed up by the desert. Someone was about to get caught. Perhaps it was someone from Mexico, or even Peru. Or perhaps it was someone who had killed someone else, like Mrs. Pearl’s son. He looked at the clock. 3:15. He lay back. And there they were again at the gas station, on that hot, hot day. His cheeks were filled with words. His skin felt tight, his muscles ached with the desire to release them. The players ran up and down the court. He told himself, Don’t do it. But he couldn’t hold it in. “Murder!” he yelled as an opponent lined up for an outside shot. He was thrown out of the game. Ortega didn’t even bother to yell at him. He just gestured with his head toward the locker room and Ares knew that he was finished. There was a can of soda sitting on a bench in the locker room. Ares shook it, popped the top, and let Coke spray all over the walls. Ortega arrived in the locker room and surveyed the mess. “You’re out of here, Ramirez,” he said calmly. “You’re off the team.” He stood there for another minute, his hands on his hips, staring at his shoes as if he were trying to think of some final words he could offer. Ares wanted to tell him not to bother. It wasn’t like in the movies. It wouldn’t make a difference. Mrs. Pearl was in the stacks, reshelving books from a small rolling cart. “You know the Dewey decimal system?” Ares asked. He was still wearing his basketball uniform, stained now with Coke spray. “Yes,” she said, looking up. “You have to in order to be a librarian.” “That’s cool,” he said. “Are you interested in becoming a librarian?” “I don’t know.” “It’s a satisfying job.” “Do you have to go to college?” “Yes.” “I don’t know, then.” “You don’t want to go to college?” Ares shrugged. “You have a lot of years yet to decide.” Ares wondered whether her son would ever get out of jail and go to college. Maybe they had college in jail. But what would be the point? If you were in for murder, you were never going to get out, and, even if you did, who would ever trust you again? Even a librarian had to be trusted not to steal the books. Ares followed Mrs. Pearl back to her desk. As she sat down, she caught him looking at the photograph of her son. “Do you want to ask me about him?” she said. “No,” he lied. “Kids are curious. They hear things.” “Not me,” Ares said. “We’re getting money for his defense,” she said. “We sold our house.” “So he didn’t do it?” Ares said. “He was set up,” she said. He couldn’t tell if she believed this or not. She absent-mindedly rubbed her thumb across the glass, cleaning off a fine layer of dust. Ares could almost feel her touch on his own face. It felt like his mother’s touch, when she bent down to kiss him good night, brushing her lips against his cheek, then pushing his hair back off his forehead with her palm, as if clearing the way for him to see his dreams. 
The Children “We must go now,” Connie’s father said, and Connie didn’t say anything. The two men stood with their shovels, hesitating. Everyone else, including Mr. Crozier, who had conducted the funeral service, had gone from the graveside. Cars were being started or were already being eased out of where they were parked, close to the church wall on the narrow road. “We have to go, Connie,” her father said. Connie felt in the pocket of her coat for the scarf ring and thought for a moment she had lost it, but then she felt the narrow silver band. She knew it wasn’t silver, but they had always pretended. She leaned forward to drop it onto the coffin and took the hand her father held out to her. By the churchyard gate they caught up with the last of the mourners, Mrs. Archdale and the elderly brothers Arthur and James Dobbs. “You’ll come to the house,” her father invited them in case an invitation hadn’t already been passed on to them. But people knew: the cars that were slipping away were all going in the same direction, to the house three and a quarter miles away, still just within the townland of Fara. Connie would have preferred this to be different. She would have liked the house to be quiet now and had imagined, this afternoon, her father and herself gathering up her mother’s belongings, arranging them in whatever way the belongings of the dead usually were arranged, her father explaining how they should be as they went along. She had thought of them alone after the funeral, doing all this because it was the time for it, because that was something you felt. Her mother’s dying, and the death itself, had been orderly and anticipated. Connie had known for months that it would come, for weeks that she would throw her scarf ring onto the coffin at the very last minute. “Brown Thomas’s,” her mother had said when she was asked where the ring had been bought, and had given it to Connie because she didn’t want it herself anymore. This afternoon, in the quiet bedroom, there would be other things: familiar brooches, familiar earrings, and clothes and shoes, of course; odds and ends in drawers. But she and her father were up to that. “All right, Connie?” he asked, turning left instead of taking the Knocklofty road, which was the long way round. There’d been no pain; that had been managed well. While she was at the hospice, and when she came home at the end, because suddenly she wanted to, you could tell that there had been no pain. “Because we prayed for that, I suppose,” Connie had said when everything was over, and her father said he supposed so, too. More important than anything it was that there had been no pain. “Oh, I’m O.K.,” she said. “They have to come to the house. They won’t stay long.” “I know.” “You’ve been a strength, Connie.” He meant it. He himself had been the source of strength at first and had seen her through that time, before she began to give back what he had given her. She had adored her mother. “She would want us to be hospitable,” he said, saying too much. “I know we have to be.” Connie was eleven and had her mother’s faded-blue eyes, and hair the color of cornstalks, as her mother’s had been, too. The freckles on her forehead and on the bridge of her nose were a feature of her own. “We can get down to it when they’ve gone,” she said as they drove on, past the two cottages where nobody lived, down the hill that suddenly became almost dark, beech foliage meeting overhead. Mrs. Archdale had been given a lift by the Dobbs brothers, their red Ford Escort already turning in at the gates. On the uneven surface of the avenue other cars were progressing cautiously, watched by the fenced sheep on either side. “Come in, come in,” Connie’s father invited the mourners who had already left their cars and were conversing in quiet tones on the gravel in front of the house. He was a tall, thin man, dark hair beginning to go gray, a boniness distinguishing his features. Sombrely dressed today, he was quite notably handsome. He had known much longer than his child had that his wife was going to die, but always at first there had been hope of a kind. Connie had been told when there was none. The hall door wasn’t locked. He’d left it so, wanting people to go in as soon as they arrived, but no one had. He pushed it open and stood aside. All of them would know the way and Mrs. O’Daly would be there, tea made. When Teresa was left by her husband she’d felt humiliated by the desertion. “You’ll have them to yourself,” he’d said—with ersatz gentleness, she considered. “I promise you I won’t be a nuisance about that.” He spoke of their two children, whom she had always believed were fonder of him than they were of her. And it seemed wrong that they should be deprived of him; in her lowness at the time she had even said so, had felt she should be punished further for her failure to keep a marriage together, should lose them, too. “Oh no,” he had protested. “No, I would never do that.” Among the mourners in the drawing room, she remembered that with poignancy, wondering if the pain of death so early in a marriage left behind the same cruel rawness that did not change and lingered for so long. “I’m sorry,” she said when Connie’s father put a hand on her arm and murmured that she was good to have come. “I’m awfully sorry, Robert,” she said again, murmuring also. She knew him as Connie’s father, her own daughter, Melissa, being Connie’s particular friend. She didn’t know him well; more often than not he wasn’t there when she brought Melissa to spend the day at the farm. She had liked Connie’s mother but had never had much of a conversation with her, they being different kinds of people, and the house was a busy place. During all the years Teresa had known the house no one was employed to help in it, as no one was—except for odd days during the summer—on the farm itself. Teresa had guessed that the present bleak occasion would be in the hands of Mrs. O’Daly, who in her capable countrywoman’s way would have offered to see to things. She was the one who poured the tea now, cups and saucers laid out on a table that didn’t belong in the drawing room. O’Daly, a small, scuttling man who worked on the roads and took on anything else he could get, was handing round plates of biscuits and egg sandwiches. “He did it very well,” someone remarked to Teresa. “Your rector did.” “Yes, he did.” A couple she couldn’t place, whose way of referring to Mr. Crozier suggested they weren’t of the locality, nodded a nervous confirmation. Teresa thought she probably would even have known them if they’d come out from Clonmel. Yes, Mr. Crozier did funerals well, she said. “We’re distant cousins,” the woman said. “A generation back.” “I live quite near.” “It’s lovely here.” “Quiet,” the man said. “You’d notice the quiet.” “We didn’t know until we picked up the Irish Times,” the woman said. “Well, we’d lost touch.” “Saddens us now, of course.” The man nodded that into place. “To have lost touch.” “Yes.” Teresa was forty-one, still pretty, her round face brightened by a smile that came easily and lingered, as if it belonged to these features in a way as permanent as they were themselves. Her reddish hair was cut quite short; she had to watch her weight and adamantly did so. She shook her head when O’Daly pressed his plate of bourbon creams on her. “We drove over,” the woman she was in conversation with imparted. “From Mitchelstown.” “Good of you to come.” They deprecated that, and Teresa looked around. When she woke that morning she’d found herself wondering if her husband would be here, if he’d drive down from Dublin, since the death would have shocked him. But among the mourners in the drawing room she didn’t see him. It seemed quite a sparse attendance in the large, ordinarily furnished room, for not everyone who’d been at the church had come. But Teresa knew her husband hadn’t been at the church, either. It was years now since they’d met; he’d ceased to bother with his children as soon as other children were born to him. As good as his word about not being a nuisance, Teresa supposed. Afterward, when everyone had gone, Connie helped the O’Dalys to clear up and when that was done the O’Dalys went, too. She and her father did what her mother had requested then, taking her things from the wardrobe and the dressing-table drawers, disposing of them as she had wished, her charities remembered. It was late before all that was completed, before Connie and her father sat together in the kitchen. He poached their eggs when they’d decided to have eggs. He asked her to watch the toast. “We’ll manage,” he said. The farm had come to Robert when he married, introducing him to a way of life he had not sought and which he did not imagine he would take to. In fact, he did, and over the years transformed the farm his wife had not long ago inherited and turned it from a sluggish, neglected enterprise into a fairly thriving one. It was a means of livelihood, too, and, more than that, a source of personal satisfaction for Robert that he succeeded with crops and stock, about which he had once known nothing. All this continued when he was widowed, when the house and land became entirely his. There were no changes on the farm, but in the house—to which Mrs. O’Daly now came for three hours every weekday morning—Connie and her father, while slowly coming to terms with the loss they had suffered, shared the awareness of a ghost that fleetingly demanded no more than to be remembered. Life continuing could not fold away what had happened, but it offered something, blurring the drama of death’s immediacy. And then, when almost two years had passed since the funeral, Robert asked Teresa to marry him. It was a natural thing. Having known one another through the friendship of their daughters, they had come to know one another better in the new circumstances, Teresa continuing to drive Melissa to the farm, along with her much younger brother, when he was made welcome there by Connie but was still too young to cycle. And Robert, doing his bit as often as he could, drove the two back to the bungalow at Fara Bridge, where their father in his day had attempted to get a pottery going. The day he asked Teresa to marry him, Robert had looked up from the cabbages he was weeding and seen her coming toward him, along the verge of the field. She brought him tea in a can, which she often did when she stayed all afternoon to save him the journey later to Fara Bridge. A year after the death she had begun to fall in love with him. “I never knew,” he said in the cabbage field when Teresa’s response to his proposal was to tell him that. “I thought you’d turn me down.” She took the can of tea from his hand and lifted it to her lips, the first intimacy between them, before their first embrace, before they spoke of love. “Oh, Robert, not in a million years would I turn you down,” she whispered. There were difficulties, but they didn’t matter as they would have once. In an Ireland they could both remember it would have been commented upon that she, born into a religious faith that was not Robert’s, had attended a funeral service in his alien church. It would have been declared that marriage would not do; that the divorce which had brought Teresa’s to an end could not be recognized. Questions would have been asked about children who might be born to them: to which belief were they promised, in which safe haven might they know only their own kind? Such difficulties still trailed, like husks caught in old cobwebs, but there were fewer interfering strictures now in how children were brought up, and havens were less often sought. Melissa, a year older than Connie, had received her early schooling from the nuns in Clonmel and had gone on to an undenominational boarding school in Dublin. Her brother still attended the national school at Fara Bridge. Connie went to Miss Mortimer, whose tiny academy for Protestant children—her mother’s choice because it was convenient—was conducted in an upstairs room at the rectory, ten minutes away along the river path. But, in the end, all three would be together at Melissa’s boarding school, coeducational and of the present. “How lovely all that is!” Teresa murmured. There was a party at which the engagement was announced—wine in the afternoon, and Mrs. O’Daly’s egg sandwiches again, and Teresa’s sponge cakes and her brandy snaps and meringues. The sun came out after what had been a showery morning, allowing the celebration to take place in the garden. Overgrown and wild in places, the garden’s neglect went back to the time of the death, although sometimes when she’d come to keep an eye on the children Teresa had done her best with the geranium beds, which had particularly been the task of Connie’s mother. She would do better now, Teresa promised herself, looking about among the guests as she had among the mourners, again half expecting to see the man who had left her, wanting him to be there, wanting him to know that she was loved again, that she had survived the indignity he had so casually subjected her to, that she was happy. But he wasn’t there, as naturally he wouldn’t be. All that was over, and the cousins from Mitchelstown with whom she had conversed on the afternoon of the funeral naturally weren’t there, either. Robert was happy, too—because Teresa was and because, all around him at the party, there were no signs of disapproval, only smiles of approbation. Because the wedding was not to take place until later in the summer, after Melissa’s return for the holidays, Connie and her father continued for a while to be alone together, managing, as he had said they would. Robert bought half a dozen Charolais calves, a breed he had never had on the farm before. He liked, every year, doing something new; and he liked the calves. Otherwise, his buying and selling were a pattern, his tasks a repetition. He repaired the fences, tightening the barbed wire where that was possible, renewing it when it wasn’t. He looked out for the many ailments that beset sheep. He lifted the first potatoes and noted every day the ripening of his barley. Teresa dragged clumps of Scotch grass and treacherous little nettles out of the sanguineum and the sylvaticum, taking a trowel to the docks. She cut down the Johnson’s Blue, wary of letting it spread too wildly, but wouldn’t have known to leave the Kashmir Purple a little longer, or that pratense’s sturdy roots were a job to divide. A notebook left behind instructed her in all that. Miss Mortimer closed her small school for the summer and Connie was at home all day then. Sometimes Melissa’s brother was there, a small thin child called Nat, a name that according to Melissa couldn’t be more suitable, since he so closely resembled an insect. “You want to come with us?” Teresa invited Connie when Melissa’s term had ended and she was setting off to meet her at the railway station in Clonmel. Connie hesitated, then said she didn’t. That surprised Teresa. She had driven over specially from Fara Bridge, as she always did when Melissa came back for the holidays. It surprised her, but afterward she realized she’d somehow sensed before she spoke that Connie was going to say no. She was puzzled but didn’t let it show. “Come back here, shall we?” she suggested, since this, too, was what always happened on Melissa’s first evening home. “If that’s what you’d like,” Connie said. The train was twenty minutes late and when Teresa returned to the farm with Melissa and Nat, Connie wasn’t in the house, and when her father came in later she wasn’t with him, either, as she sometimes was. “Connie!” they all called in the yard, her father going into some of the sheds. Melissa and her brother went to the end of the avenue and a little way along the road in both directions. “Connie!” they called out in the garden, although they could see she wasn’t there. “Connie!” they called, going from room to room in the house. Her father was worried. He didn’t say he was but Melissa could tell. So could Teresa. “She can’t be far,” she said. “Her bicycle’s here.” She drove Melissa to Fara Bridge to unpack her things, and Nat went with them. She telephoned the farm then. There wasn’t any answer and she guessed that Robert was still looking for his child. The telephone was ringing again when Connie came back. She came downstairs; she’d been on the roof, she said. You went up through the trapdoor at the top of the attic stairs. You could lie down on the warm lead and read a book. Her father shook his head, saying it wasn’t safe to climb about on the roof. He made her promise not to again. “What’s the matter, Connie?” he asked her when he went to say good night. Connie said nothing was. Propped up in front of her was the book she’d been reading on the roof, “The Citadel,” by A. J. Cronin. “Surely you don’t understand that, Connie?” her father said, and she said she wouldn’t want to read a book she didn’t understand. Connie watched the furniture being unloaded. The men lifted it from the yellow removal van, each piece familiar to her from days spent in the bungalow at Fara Bridge. Space had been made, some of the existing furniture moved out, to be stored in one of the outhouses. Melissa wasn’t there. She was helping her mother to rearrange in the half-empty rooms at Fara Bridge the furniture that remained, which would have to be sold when the bungalow was because there wasn’t room for it at the farm. There had been a notice up all summer announcing the sale of the bungalow, but no one had made an offer yet. “Every penny’ll go into the farm,” Connie had heard Teresa saying. Nat, whom Teresa had driven over earlier, watched with Connie in the hall. He was silent this morning, as he often was, his thin arms wrapped tightly around his body in a way that suggested he suffered from the cold, although the day was warm. Now and again he glanced at Connie, as if expecting her to say something about what was happening, but she didn’t. All morning it took. Mrs. O’Daly brought the men tea and later, when they finished, Connie’s father gave them a drink in the kitchen: small glasses of whiskey, except for the man who was the driver, who was given what remained in the bottle to take away with him. “That’s a lovely piece of delft,” Mrs. O’Daly commented in the hall, referring to a blue-and-white soup tureen that the men had placed on the shelf of the hall stand. Having finished her morning’s work, she had gone from room to room, inspecting the furniture that had come, and the glass and china in the hall. “Isn’t that really lovely!” she exclaimed again about the soup tureen. It was cracked, Connie saw, a long crack in the lid. It used to be on the sideboard of the dining room in the bungalow. She’d never much noticed it then, but in the hall it seemed obtrusive. Melissa was pretty—tall and slender, with long fair hair and greenish eyes. She liked jokes, and was clever although she didn’t want to be and often pretended she wasn’t. “Time to measure the maggot,” she said later that same day. Her contention was that her brother had ceased to grow and would grow no more. She and Connie regularly made him stand against the doorjamb of Connie’s bedroom in the hope of finding an increase in his modest stature. But Connie shook her head when this was again suggested. She was reading “London Belongs to Me” and went on doing so. Nat, on his way upstairs already, for he enjoyed this ceremonial attention, looked disappointed. “Poor little maggot,” Melissa said. “Poor little maggot, Connie. You’ve gone and upset it.” “You shouldn’t call your brother a maggot.” “Hey!” Outraged, Melissa stared disbelievingly at Connie’s calm features. “Hey, come on!” Connie turned down the corner of a page and began to walk away. “It’s only a blooming word,” Melissa ran after her to protest. “He doesn’t mind.” “This isn’t your house,” Connie said. The day Connie’s mother came back from the hospice Miss Mortimer had pinned up pictures of flowers. Miss Mortimer painted her pictures herself; before the flowers there’d been clowns. “Foxglove,” Connie had said when Miss Mortimer asked. Going home on the river path, Connie had been thinking of that: of the four new pictures on the schoolroom wall, of Miss Mortimer saying that soon there wouldn’t be a cowslip left anywhere. The schoolroom stayed on in her mind nearly always when she was going home, the writing on the blackboard, the carpet, the boards showing all around it, the table they sat at, Miss Mortimer, too. The rectory itself stayed in the two flights of stairs, the white hall door, three steps, the gravel. Her father didn’t wave when she saw him coming toward her. It was drizzling and she thought that was maybe why he was coming to meet her. But often in winter it rained and he didn’t; it was her mother who used to. “Hullo, Connie,” he said, and she knew then that her mother had come back from the hospice, as she had said she would. He took her hand, not telling her, because she knew. She didn’t cry. She wanted to ask, in case it was different from what she guessed, but she didn’t because she didn’t want to hear if it was. “It’s all right,” her father said. He went with her to the room that had become her mother’s, overlooking the garden. She touched her mother’s hand and he lifted her up so that she could kiss her cheek, as often he’d done before. Mr. Crozier, the rector, was standing by the windows in the drawing room when they went downstairs again. She hadn’t known he was there. Then the O’Dalys came. “You stay here with me,” Mrs. O’Daly said in the kitchen. “I’ll hear you your reading.” But it wasn’t reading on a Tuesday; another verse to learn instead, and six sentences to write. “You going to write them, then?” Mrs. O’Daly asked. “You going to think them up?” She didn’t want to. She learned the verse and said it to her father when he came to sit beside her, but the next day she didn’t have to go to Miss Mortimer’s. People came in the morning. She could hear their footsteps in the hall and on the stairs; she couldn’t hear voices. It was in the afternoon that her mother died. “That’s not like Connie,” Robert said. “No, it isn’t.” When Teresa had been told by her children what Connie had said to them she had guessed, with sudden, bitter intuition, that everything going well was over. And she had wondered where she and Robert had gone wrong. Robert was simply bewildered. The wedding, to be conducted by Mr. Crozier as a purely family occasion, was less than three weeks off. No going away afterward, no honeymoon, because the time of year on the farm wasn’t right for that. “What else does Connie say?” Teresa shook her head. She didn’t know but suspected nothing else, and was right. “We want to be married,” Robert said. “Nothing’s going to stop that now.” Teresa hesitated, but only for a moment. “Nothing is,” she said. “Children manage to get on. Even when they’re strangers to one another.” Teresa didn’t say that being strangers might make things easier. She didn’t say it because she didn’t know why that should be. But Melissa, who never wept, wept often now, affected as a stranger would not have been. The books Connie pretended to read were in the dining-room bookcases, on either side of the fireplace. They’d been her mother’s books, picked up at country-house auctions, some thrown away when the shelves became full, all of them old, belonging to another time. “ ‘The Man with Red Hair,’ ” her mother said. “You’ll love that.” And “Dr. Bradley Remembers,” and “Random Harvest.” Only “Jamaica Inn” retained its paper jacket, yellow, without a picture. “And ‘The Stars Look Down,’ ” her mother had said. “You’ll love ‘The Stars Look Down.’ ” Connie took it to the roof, to the lead-covered gully she had found, wide enough to lie on between two slopes of slates. Every time she went there she wished she didn’t have to disobey her father and always took care not to spend too long there in case she was discovered. Sometimes she stood up, protected from sight by the bulk of a chimney and, far away, saw her father in the fields or Teresa among the geraniums. Sometimes Melissa and Nat were on the avenue, Nat on the carrier of Melissa’s bicycle, his small legs spread wide so that they wouldn’t catch in the spokes. Teresa felt she had never loved Robert more; and felt that she was loved, herself, more steadfastly even than before—as if, she thought, the trouble brought such closeness. Or was there panic? she wondered in other moments; was it in panic that the depths of trust were tapped? Was it in panic that the widowed and the rejected protected what they’d been unable to protect before? She did not know the answers to her questions. It only seemed all wrong that a child’s obduracy should mock what was so fairly due. “Connie.” Robert found her in the outhouse where the furniture was. She had folded aside a dust sheet and was sitting in an armchair of which the springs had gone, which should have been thrown out years ago. “Connie,” he interrupted her, for she had not heard him. Her book was “Folly Bridge.” She marked her place with a finger. She smiled at him. No one considered that recently she’d turned sulky; there was no sign of that. Even when she’d told Melissa and Nat that the house was not theirs, she had apparently simply said it. “You’re troubled because Teresa and I are to be married, Connie.” “I’m all right.” “You didn’t seem to mind before.” The armchair had a high back with wings, its faded red velvet badly worn in places, an embroidery of flowers stitched where an antimacassar might be. “It’s very good,” Connie said, speaking about the book she held. “Yes.” “Will you read it?” “If you would like me to.” Connie nodded. And they could talk about it, she said. If he read it they could talk about it. “Yes, we could. You’ve always liked Teresa, Connie. You’ve always liked Melissa and Nat. It isn’t easy for us to understand.” “Couldn’t it stay here, the furniture you don’t want? Couldn’t we keep it here?” “Out here it’s a bit damp for furniture.” “Couldn’t we put it back, then?” “Is that what’s worrying you, Connie? The furniture?” “When the books are thrown away I’ll know what every single one of them was about.” “But, for heaven’s sake, the books won’t be thrown away!” “I think they will be, really.” Robert went away. He didn’t look for Teresa to tell her about the conversation. Every year at this time he erected a corral where his ewes paddled through a trough of disinfectant. They crowded it now, while he remembered his half-hearted protestations and Connie’s unsatisfactory responses. “Oh, come on, come on! Get on with it!” Impatient with his sheep, as he had not been with his daughter, he wondered if Connie hated him. He had felt she did, although nothing like it had showed, or had echoed in her voice. From the roof she saw a car she’d never seen before, and guessed why it had come. In one of the drawers of the rickety Welsh dresser she’d found a shopping list and thought she remembered it being lost. “Ironing starch. Baking powder,” she’d read. The car that had come was parked in the yard when she came down from the roof. A man was standing beside it. He referred to the furniture that was to be sold, as Connie had thought he might. “Anyone around?” he asked her. He was a big red-faced man in shirtsleeves. He’d thought he’d never find the house, he said. He asked her if he was expected, if this was the right place, and she wanted to say it wasn’t, but Teresa came out of the house then. “Go and get your father,” she said, and Connie nodded and went to where she’d seen him from the roof. “Don’t sell the furniture,” she begged, instead of saying the man had come. One night, when the wedding was five days away, Teresa drove over to the farm. About to go to bed, she knew she wouldn’t be able to sleep, and wrote a note for Melissa, saying where she was going. It was after half past one and if there hadn’t been a sign of life at the farm she would have driven away again. But the lights were on in the big drawing room and Robert heard the car. He’d been drinking, he confessed as he let Teresa in. “I don’t know how to make sense to her,” he said when they’d embraced. Without asking, he poured her some whiskey. “I don’t know what to do, Teresa.” “I know you don’t.” “When she came to stand beside me while I was milking this afternoon, when she didn’t say anything but I could hear her pleading, I thought she was possessed. But later on we talked as if none of all this was happening. She laid the table. We ate the trout I’d fried. We washed the plates up. Dear Teresa, I can’t destroy the childhood that is left to her.” “I think you’re perhaps a little drunk.” “Yes.” He did not insist that there must be a way; and, knowing what frightened him, Teresa knew there wasn’t. She was frightened herself while she was with him now, while wordlessly they shared the horrors of his alarm. Was some act, too terrible for a child, waiting in the desolation of despair to become a child’s? They did not speak of what imagination made of it, how it might be, nurtured in anger’s pain, in desperation and betrayal, the ways it might become unbearable. They walked along on the avenue, close to one another in the refreshing air. The sky was lightening, dawn an hour away. The shadows of danger went with them, too treacherous to take chances with. “Our love still matters,” Teresa whispered. “It always will.” A calf had been born and safely delivered. It had exhausted her father, Connie could tell. And rain that had begun a week ago had hardly ceased, washing his winter seeding into a mire. “Oh, it’ll be all right,” he said. He knew what she was thinking, and he watched her being careful with plates that were warming in the oven, careful with the coffee she made, letting it sit a moment. Coffee at suppertime was what he’d always liked. She heated milk and poured it from the saucepan. The bread was sawn, slices waiting on the board, butter beside them. There were tomatoes, the first of the Blenheims, the last of the tayberries. Pork steak browned on the pan. It was not all bleakness: Robert was aware of that. In moments like the moments that were passing now, and often too at other times, he discerned in what had been his daughter’s obduracy a spirit, still there, that was not malicious. In the kitchen that was so familiar to both of them, and outside in the raw cold of autumn when she came to him in the fields, she was as events had made her, the recipient of a duty she could not repudiate. It had seemed to her that an artificial household would demand that she should, and perhaps it might have. Robert had come to understand that; Teresa confessed that nothing was as tidy as she’d imagined. There were no rights that cancelled other rights, less comfort than she’d thought for the rejected and the widowed, and no fairness, either. They had been hasty, she dared to say, although two years might seem a long enough hiatus. They had been clumsy and had not known it. They had been careless, yet were not careless people. They were a little to blame, but only that. And Robert knew that time in passing would settle how the summer had been left. Time would gather up the ends, and see to it that his daughter’s honoring of a memory was love that mattered also, and even mattered more. 
Path Lights One day, a bottle almost hits us. It’s a brown quart bottle that falls out of the sky. We are in the arroyo, the dogs and me, walking. They look at the bottle; they look at me. My first guess is that somebody threw it down from the rim of the arroyo. But then it would have bounced down the slope—it wouldn’t have stopped dead like this. I think of the pilot tossing a Coke bottle from a plane in the movie “The Gods Must Be Crazy.” But, as a detective once told me, “Most of the time, we find that the thing that probably happened? Is the thing that did happen.” So eventually I turn around and see the San Rafael Bridge—which I just walked under, so I shouldn’t be surprised that it’s there—and then I understand what must have happened. Because you might not know. You might drive across the bridge and toss a bottle over the rail never guessing that people walk and ride horses below. Or you might say to yourself, “This bottle could fall to the bottom of the arroyo and hit someone in the head, which is O.K. by me.” The dogs want to get going. Either they’ve already forgotten the bottle or they’re worried that another one might be on the way. But I tell them to stay, and I pick up the bottle and hold it in the sunlight. It’s empty but still cold. Blind Street Ale is what it held. I wonder what the dogs would have done if the bottle had knocked me out. Perhaps they would have stood by until I woke up, as Lassie would have if Jeff, or later Timmy, had been hit by a beer bottle. It’s just as likely, though, that they’d have run off into the trees. Because they have their own agendas. Tag’s a wirehaired Jack Russell whose life mission is to create an empire of the places where he has peed. Raleigh is a very small beagle with round golden eyes and enormous ears—homely, yet somehow profound. Her goal is to follow every odd scent she comes across—and there are, it seems, a lot of them—slowly and at length. Sometimes Tag will pee, and Raleigh will want to stop and smell that, and I’ll think, or even say out loud, “Well, kids, we’re not going to get anywhere at this rate.” Now we head home, where the A.C. is cranking, the blinds are down in the bedroom, and Ingrid has the blanket pulled up to her chin. She’s an aerospace engineer in La Cañada and the spacecraft Phaethon has just landed on Mars. The reason for the mission is secret—she can’t tell anyone what it’s about, not even me. She tends to get migraines every time some phase of her work comes to an end. I sit on the edge of the bed and put my hand on her forehead. Her hair is damp but her skin is cool. “How was your walk?” she says, without opening her eyes. “It was O.K.,” I say. “This is the worst part,” she says. “I think it’ll break soon.” “Do you want some Coke?” “It’s all gone.” “Coffee?” “Gone.” So I run hot water on a washcloth, wring it out, and carry it back to the bedroom. I lay it on her forehead and press down. “You’re an angel,” she says. “No, you are. Everybody else is celebrating and here you are. It’s not fair.” “I’m not worried about that, Bobby,” she says. “I can celebrate another time.” We have lived in California for three years and Ingrid likes the state very much. She was born on a farm in South Dakota. It’s abandoned now. Every few years, Ingrid goes back to take a look, even though all that’s left is the old bleached shell of a house, surrounded by blue grama grass and tall trees with pale bark and waxy leaves. You can’t go upstairs anymore, because the steps have crumbled, but you can still stand outside and look up at her old bedroom window. Starbucks coffee is good for Ingrid’s headaches, so I head back out to buy her the biggest one they have. Then I drive to the liquor store on DeLacey and buy two litres of Coke. “Just soda tonight?” Mr. King says. He is short and round with a red face and bright eyes. We like him, and his liquor store. We always get him a scarf or something at Christmas, because even in Southern California you sometimes need a scarf. “Do you carry Blind Street Ale?” I ask. Mr. King nods. “We hardly sell any of it, but we do have it. It’s strong, and it’s twelve bucks a quart.” “Anyone buy some lately?” “I don’t know. Why?” I tell him what happened in the arroyo. He shakes his head and looks disappointed in humanity. “I never heard of such a thing.” “My idea,” I say, “is to figure out who did it and talk to them. Not angry, necessarily, but just so they know.” “Quite right,” Mr. King says. “Prevent it from happening again.” “I figure I might be able to—find them, I mean—because it’s such an obscure brand.” “I’ve tasted it,” he says. “It’s obscure for a reason.” “Maybe I’ll try some.” It’s dark by the time I get home. We live on a winding street with houses on one side, opposite a steep dense bank of ivy. All the houses have path lights in the grass. I really like them for some reason, these low modest lanterns lighting up when night comes down. Tag and Raleigh are lying on the kitchen table looking out the window when I drive up. Tag stands and wags his tail so hard that the table shakes, and he yodels as he always does when he sees someone he knows outside. If he doesn’t know you, his reaction is much worse. Once, a dog trainer came to the house, and he said, “Tag is not aggressive; he’s just got a tremendous amount of adrenaline.” I take the coffee in and set it on Ingrid’s night table. She’s snoring lightly, but when she wakes up she’ll be glad to see it, hot or cold. Then I go back to the kitchen, open the bottle of Blind Street, and pour some into a heavy glass goblet sort of thing. There isn’t much foam, which I take to mean that the bottle sat on the shelf for a long time. The ale is flowery, with a tranquillizing undercurrent. I drink it while reading the newspaper in the dining room. After two glasses, I’m sort of drunk. Gravity comes alive—I can feel it on my arms and shoulders, pulling me down. Ingrid comes out of the bedroom now with her coffee. She sits at the table and plucks the collar of her shirt from her neck with both hands. She has straight brown hair parted in the middle and dark crescent eyes and a full lower lip that gives a strong sense of composure to her face. “I feel better,” she says. “Thank God,” I say. And I mean it. I hate it when she’s sick. The house gets all dark and quiet—it’s as if time had ceased to function. “Not dizzy anymore,” she says. “Let’s play cards,” I suggest. “What are you drinking?” I explain about the bottle and the bridge. “I don’t get it,” she says. “You pick up some bottle off the ground and now you’re drinking from it?” “No. Hell no. I got this at Mr. King’s.” “What’s it like?” “I think you’d say it was complex.” “Good old Mr. King,” Ingrid says. We play three hands of Russian bank. She shuffles the cards one-handed. I don’t know how she can do this, but she can. “I could’ve been killed by that bottle,” I say. “Nothing can happen to you,” she says. “You’re the voice of Milo Hahn.” This is a reference to my work. I read out loud in a recording studio for a living. Commercials, books on tape, a few other things. Once, I even did the voice-activated response system for a tree-service conglomerate. “Do you want one tree planted? Say yes or no. Do you want more than one tree planted? Say yes or no. Do you want one tree removed?” And so on. Tedious to record, let alone to hear on the phone, I’m sure. I have no doubt that voiceactivated response systems are making the nation a dumber place, but the money was very good. I also do the Milo Hahn mysteries. Milo Hahn is a private investigator who travels around the United States in a camper pickup unravelling sordid deals. That’s why I talked to the detective I mentioned before—to get some background. Not that I really needed it just to read the books. The author writes three a year, and the titles are all plays on state slogans. Alaska was “Beyond Your Dreams, Within Your Nightmares,” Connecticut “Full of Deadly Surprises.” Usually, I record at a studio in Glendale. If Martians were to land here and build their conception of an Earth city, I suspect it would look like Glendale: the open streets, the trees that line up a little too well, the eccentric and vaguely futuristic architecture. Today I’m finishing “It Must Be Murder,” a mystery set in Maine. It concerns a woman who wants Milo to find her son. Only he’s not really her son, as it turns out, but one of the world’s most ingenious cocaine thieves—until, that is, his corpse washes up on a rock, where seals keep trying to shove it off, which you can understand, because it is their habitat. “I used to be happy,” I read. This is Milo talking to himself at the end of the book. “I’d roll into town, grill a steak, drink some Lagavulin, and watch the sun go down. Now I don’t know. Now I can’t chase out of my mind the crazy lies that people convince themselves of and then try to sell me. And for what? So that I’ll find the answers? Make their stories true? Are you kidding me? There ain’t no answers, people—that’s what I want to say. No answers, no true stories. There’s only the highway and a full tank of gas and a call on my cell phone from some guy in Baltimore, who’s got a bit of a nasty problem and thinks maybe I can help. And the hell of it is, maybe I can.” (The reference to Baltimore, see, will direct the audience to the next book, set in Maryland. The series goes in alphabetical order.) I look up. Terry Finn is on the other side of the glass. He runs the sound board and lines up the jobs. He got into an accident last spring while riding his motorcycle on the Angeles Crest Highway, and had to have reconstructive surgery on his shoulder. Now he can’t lift his left arm over his head. “You nailed it, Bobby,” he says. “Morose, yet optimistic. Only it was just maybe a little too fast.” “Oh, you always say that,” I tell him. “Well, you always rush the ending.” “You know, this is in your mind. You hear what you want to hear.” “Hey,” he says, “I wish I did.” This is what Milo Hahn would do about the bottle of Blind Street Ale. He would set a fire in the Dumpster at Mr. King’s liquor store, and while everybody was outside trying to put it out he would rifle through the records. Milo Hahn is a master of rifling, and a combustion expert; he’s constantly setting diversionary fires. When he found what he was looking for, he would rip it out of the ledger. (This is what I find troubling about the books: Milo always finds what he needs to find; in life, when you look for things, you’re usually looking in the wrong place.) Later, Mr. King would probably turn up murdered, which would tip Milo off to the fact that the case was more complicated than it had at first appeared. Terry says, “Just read from the break.” So I do. “ ‘Here’s your money,’ Mrs. Cahill tells me. She’s wearing an astrakhan jacket in the parking lot of an Arby’s and not looking too much at home. ‘And a little something for your college fund.’ “It’s a stack of hundreds, the fresh kind, sharp as a razor, coated with the bitter powder of the vault. “ ‘I guess this seals the deal,’ I say. It’s a crummy joke and I don’t care if she gets it or not. “But she does, all right. She gets it. Her eyes flash like the tail-lights of a Maserati Spyder fresh off the lot, cash on the barrel, no questions asked. “ ‘Don’t press your luck, Mr. Hahn,’ she says. ‘Someday it might press back.’ ” Rosemary, the herb, grows around one of the trees in our front yard, and a couple of nights later I’m cutting it back. We cook with the stuff, but you can’t really cook fast enough to keep up with the growth of rosemary. The dogs are on long leads that aren’t tied to anything, but they don’t realize that, so they’re just hanging around. The phone rings and I go inside. It’s Ingrid. “Where are you?” I ask. “My Place.” That’s what she calls Mi Piace, in Old Town. It’s a big, open restaurant with white tablecloths and vast cold Martinis. “Go ahead and eat,” she says. “We haven’t even ordered, so it’ll be a couple of hours.” “You’re celebrating,” I say. “The Phaethon has landed.” “Another one?” “No, the same one.” “What’s it doing?” I figure she might tell me, since she sounds a little looped. “It’s talking.” “Oh yeah? To who?” “I’ve said too much already.” I tell her to call me when she wants to come home, and I put the phone down, though the rosemary resin on my fingers makes them stick to the receiver. When I go back outside, Raleigh is gone. Tag lies in the grass looking melancholy. His leash is wrapped around the A.D.T. Security sign. I put him in the house and go down the street calling for our mindless little beagle. Three houses away, I see her on the high cantilevered roof of someone’s garage looking down at me with big yellow eyes. Because the houses on our block are built into ledges, this is not as great an accomplishment as it seems. Still, I’m impressed. I walk the length of the garage, and in the short distance from the front to the back the yard climbs to a bank of ground cover that’s flush with the roof. Raleigh seems surprised to see me on her level when I was down on the street a minute ago. Luckily, no one comes out of the house. I rescue my dog and carry her home under my arm like a football. An hour later, the phone rings again. It’s Mr. King this time. Four bottles of the ale I was asking about went out this morning. He heard about it but didn’t see it happen. He gives me the name and address on the check. The mission seems a little specious now, but I don’t mind having something to do. So I sit down at my desk and write: Dear Neighbors, Last Tuesday a bottle of Blind Street Ale was thrown from the San Rafael Bridge into the Arroyo Seco. As luck would have it, no harm was done. But the bottle barely missed a man and his dogs. Who can say what will happen next time? The arroyo is for the use and enjoyment of walkers and joggers and equestrians. It is almost one hundred per cent free of debris, either airborne or stationary. Let’s keep it that way. I look the letter over and change the period after the last sentence to an exclamation point. Let’s keep it that way! It seems less hostile somehow. Then I drive to the address Mr. King gave me, a house in a quiet neighborhood off Linda Vista. It’s one of those big Craftsman places that seem to be perpetually under renovation. Scaffolding rises on all sides, giving the house the look of a great sailing ship in drydock. I park near the mailbox and get out of the car and put the letter halfway in the slot so that whoever lives here will see it. While I’m doing this, a deep-green sports car—a Maserati, as it happens—comes around the corner and stops next to my car. “Are you here about the environment?” the driver says. He is a man in his fifties, maybe, wearing a blue shirt with “Los Angeles Dodgers of Los Angeles” printed in white. “No,” I say. I take the letter from the mailbox and carry it over to him. “There was a . . . well, you can read it.” He begins to do so and then he looks up. “My daughter drinks this Blind Street,” he says. Then he goes back to the letter. “Where it says ‘a man and his dogs,’ would that be you?” I nod. “Probably a lot of people drink it,” I say. “It doesn’t mean she was the one.” “One way to find out,” he says. “She lives in the carriage house.” “Well, you can ask her.” “No, come along,” he says. “She doesn’t see that many people. It’ll do her good.” We drive up to the house, then get out and walk around to a split-shake barn with an apartment upstairs. The path lights here are little Mission lanterns with sea-green brass and yellow mullioned glass. Very sharp. I tell him so. The man turns with a pragmatic flatness to his mouth, as if he had just thought of something. His eyes are deep-set, his crewcut like iron filings. “Do I know you?” he says. “I don’t think so.” “You seem familiar.” “Ever listen to the Milo Hahn mysteries on audio?” “No, I’m not familiar with those,” he says. “I know what it is. You work for those guys—the tree people.” “I’m the voice on their phone system. I don’t really work for them.” “No kidding. You do voices.” He nods, thinks this over. “That can be interesting, I imagine.” “Oh, it’s like anything. Sometimes interesting, sometimes not.” “Can you do Jimmy Stewart?” “No. I don’t do voices that way.” “I know, I’m just kidding,” he says. “I’m going to go see if she’s around. But, whatever she says, don’t get mad at her, all right? She can’t stand that.” “You know, let’s forget this,” I say. “I don’t want to bother your daughter.” “It’s no bother.” He turns toward the barn and half shouts the rest. “You’ve gone to the trouble to make a flyer and we’re going to get to the bottom of this.” He goes inside and is in there for some time. I walk across the lawn to a gazebo where there’s an easel and a painting. The painting is dark and hard to figure out, but as I look closer I see that it must be the yard as it appears at night. The paint has been applied in thick slabs of black and midnight blue and it looks wet, as an oil painting in a museum might. I touch it—I’ve always wanted to do this—and I find that it is, in fact, still wet. I leave the gazebo and wipe my fingers on some ferns. They’re still in the carriage house. Raised voices bump like bats at the windows, but I can’t hear anything specific. Don’t get mad at her, you said so yourself, I think. I figure that Ingrid’s probably calling me to come and get her by now, and here I’ve wandered into this weird family scene. Then the door opens. She’s older than I expected. Late twenties or more, I’d guess, in a stringy sweater with red and white stripes, overlong sleeves, and one of those collars whose points sit way out on the shoulders. Her fingers clamp the cuffs of the sweater to the palms of her hands. Her nails are short and jagged, and from the marks around them I determine that she is the night painter. “I dreamed that God came and said it was time for me to go,” she says. There is a wooden bench nearby with a blue-handled garden shovel leaning against the seat. The father goes over and picks up the shovel and lays it on the bench. Then he picks it up again and puts it on the grass under the bench. “Is that how we said we’d start?” he says. Her eyes close, press tight, and open. She chews on her thumbnail and looks at me with red-rimmed eyes the color of slate. “I’m sorry,” she says. “I never thought it might hit someone. I’d had a really bad day. That doesn’t excuse it, I know. See, because I dreamed that God came into my room like the mailman, and he had these orders for me in his pouch, and he said that I would die. And I said, ‘But I’m young,’ and he said, ‘In your heart, you are not all that young.’ I woke up crying, I couldn’t stop, because it seemed so real.” “Mariana,” the father says. “But I don’t mean to lay all that on you. Then I drove around drinking Blind Street in the sun, and I threw the bottle out when it was empty, and I drove all the way to Zuma, and walked up and down on the sand, listening to the water, and then I came back. And I felt good then, better than I had in a long time. Because I thought, You know, I’m not going anywhere. And I never thought for a minute about anyone in the arroyo.” “Though you should have,” the father says. “Yes. I should.” “And?” She rolls her eyes and breathes out so forcefully that the wings of her nostrils flare. “And will, in the future.” “Because you’ll . . . what will you do?” “Think.” She nods her head. “I will think.” “Look, it’s not the end of the world,” I say. “It’s just a bottle. We’ve all thrown bottles out of cars, I’m sure, at one time or another. That doesn’t make you a bad person.” “You don’t know me,” she says. “No, that’s for sure. But you’re honest. You could’ve said, ‘Me? I didn’t do anything.’ A lot of people would have said that. And that counts for something. Now, I think I’ve made too much of this, and I have to go.” Mariana takes my hand in both of hers. “My apologies again,” she says. From their house I drive straight to Mi Piace. Ingrid and her pals are at a cluttered table in the back. I know them; they know me. There are plates and glasses and cups and saucers all mixed up on the table, and they’ve pushed back their chairs because the meal is over. The help hovers nearby, dressed in black. “Where you been, man?” Ingrid says. “I called you. Come sit by me. What’s wrong? You look like you’ve seen the ghost of Jacob Marley.” I pull up a chair. “I found out who threw that bottle,” I say. “You and that bottle, my God,” she says. “It’s like your constant companion.” “What bottle is this?” Else Nelson, the director of the team, says. “Oh, somebody threw a bottle at Bobby in the arroyo. It’s all he thinks about.” “Who threw it?” “A woman,” I say. “Why?” Else says. I look at him. For a scientist, he looks sort of ramshackle: unshaven, jowly, with the mysterious light of extreme knowledge in his eyes. “You tell me what you’re doing on Mars,” I say, “and I’ll tell you why she threw the bottle.” 
Companion Since she’d arrived in America and got divorced, Ilona Siegal had been set up three times. The first man was not an ordinary man but a Ph.D. from Moscow, the friend who’d arranged the date said. When Ilona opened her door, she’d found the Ph.D. standing on her front steps in a pair of paper-sheer yellow jogging shorts. He was thin, in the famished way of grazing animals and endurance athletes, with folds of skin around his kneecaps and wiry rabbit muscles braiding into his inner thighs. Under his arm he held what, in a moment of brief confusion, Ilona took for a wine bottle. But when he stepped inside she saw that it was only a litre of water he’d brought along for himself. Their plan had been to take a walk around a nearby park and then go out to lunch. But the Ph.D. had already been to the park. It wasn’t anything special, he said. He’d just gone jogging there. He didn’t like to miss his jogs, and since he’d driven an hour and a half out of his way to meet her he’d got in a run first. Ilona poured him a glass of grapefruit juice and listened to him talk about his work at Bell Labs. He reclined in his chair, his knees apart, unaware that one of his testicles was inching out of the inner lining of his shorts. Ilona stared at his face, trying not to look down. The second man was American, somebody’s co-worker, brought along to a party to meet her. He had graying red hair and his light lashes were coated with dandruff-like flakes. He took Ilona to an outdoor concert at the local community college. Afterward, she waited while he searched the cabinets of his kitchen, finally producing a tray of crackers and a dry triangle of Brie. All she remembered now of the man’s small apartment was the blinding light of his empty refrigerator. The last man was too young for her and obviously gay. He’d agreed to meet Ilona because he had the impression that she was an illegal who needed to marry to stay in the country. As soon as they sat down at an outdoor table at a café, the man told her that he wouldn’t normally consider such an offer but his mother had fallen ill and he needed to pay for her treatment. Ilona nodded in sympathy and asked the young man to repeat himself more slowly. She understood that her case had been shoved so far into the recesses of her acquaintanceships that the people who now gave out her phone number no longer knew who she was or what she wanted. It had not always been this way. There had been happier times, when she’d had both a husband and a lover; when she and her husband had thrown parties in their Tbilisi apartment that went late into the night, with longer and longer rounds of toasts and the smell of sweat and sharp cologne overpowering even the odor of cigarettes. Nothing fed Ilona’s spirits more than the company of men. She loved the sound of their hoarse voices, the amateur authority with which they spoke about world affairs and other matters they had absolutely no effect on. But most of all she loved the flattering light of their attention. After the last female guest had said good night, and she had found herself in the thrilling half-susceptible state of being the only woman at the party, was when modesty came most easily to her. It lent coherence to her whole character, so that she could finally be her most humorous and disarming self. But all that had been a world ago and she tried to think about it as little as possible, now that she came home to an apartment that was not hers, and to a man who was neither a spouse nor a lover but who seemed to demand more of her than either possibly could. “Have you met Thomaz?” Taia said. “He’s outside.” “The Georgian?” Ilona went to the sink to rinse off her hands. “I hope you didn’t invite him here for me.” Her fingers were grainy with the watermelon she’d been slicing. She ran them under the tap and felt around on the counter for her rings. “I didn’t invite him at all. He came with the Gureviches.” “He’s a bit young, no?” Ilona slipped on the bigger of the three rings first, a teardrop diamond in a five-prong setting. “If you’re comparing him with your roommate,” said Taia, who almost never referred to Earl by name. “Don’t lose those.” She glanced down at the rings. “One day you’ll take one off and it’ll fall down a drain. Some women don’t even wear the jewelry they own. They have copies made.” “So maybe I should tear off a piece of tinfoil and wrap that around my finger instead?” “Do what you want,” Taia said. There was no point, Ilona decided, in reminding Taia that before Felix started making money she’d been so cheap she’d gutted empty tubes of Crest, scraping the toothpaste from the creases. No matter how tough her life got, Ilona thought, she’d never lower herself to something so miserly. At least she made use of the nice things she owned. Unlike Taia, whose kitchen had floor-to-ceiling pantries, brushed stainless-steel everything, and polished granite counters that she touched only when she was throwing a party. “Did you put new low lights in the ceiling?” Ilona said. “It was Felix’s idea,” Taia said, tipping her head back. “He thought we’d get more for the house if the kitchen was brighter.” “You’re selling it?” “Not right away. It usually takes a year.” “You didn’t tell me.” “We haven’t really told anyone. Except the Kogans, and the Weinbergs, in case anyone knew of anyone who was looking. It isn’t a secret.” There were plenty of things that Taia forgot to tell her—but selling a house? Was that just another bit of information exchanged between people with money, like a stock tip? “Oh, don’t be upset. A year’s a long time. You can still come here whenever you need to get away from that man. Come this weekend. We’re going to Providence for Parents’ Day. You could drop in and water the plants, feed the cat.” Taia laid down her paring knife and stood up. “Let me find you a key.” “I still have the key from last time,” Ilona said. She couldn’t tell if Taia was offering her a favor or asking for one, just as she couldn’t judge if her friends kept things to themselves to protect her feelings or because they found her irrelevant. She knew they gossiped. A year ago, she used to bring up Earl in conversation all the time—told her friends stories about his two favorite activities, researching his genealogy and organizing his video collection; and mimicked him mercilessly even if he was in the next room, or precisely because he was in the next room and didn’t understand a word of Russian. She was staying with him so she could save up for her own apartment. But lately she’d started to realize that unless she wanted to move north into Putnam County or south into the Bronx, and either way end up an hour’s drive from her job, her sojourn would have to drag on for at least another year. She stepped outside and into the sun. The clouds were coasting slowly in the sky, forming metallic reflections in the second-story windows. The air was smoky from the grill. On the patio, two men were lamenting the loss of jobs to Bangalore. Ilona walked past the Kogans and the Ulitskys, past the women reclining in white lounge chairs. It was mid-September, but already she felt a kick of cold in the air. She wore a silk blouse, while the others had come in cotton sweaters. She set her cup on the refreshments table and bent down to refill it with seltzer. A few dead leaves had fallen on the grass. They were the weakest leaves, the lemon-lime color of early fall. When she turned around she found Felix standing behind her. “Where is your friend today?” he said, and surveyed the people scattered around the lawn. “When I left, he was still sleeping in front of his sixty-inch television.” “So Earl fell asleep and you snuck out?” “Do I need Earl’s permission to see my friends?” “No. But I thought you’d extend the invitation to him.” “And what makes you think I didn’t?” “I don’t think he would have missed an opportunity to be seen with you.” She was too tired to play this game today. Every time Felix tried to make her feel better he only made her feel worse. It was his diplomacy that was the worst of it, his awareness that every comment could be taken as a potential insult. The old contrite song, not for their affair of eleven years ago—which, thankfully, no one had learned about—but for all the other disappointments in her life. “Earl couldn’t come because he isn’t feeling well. He’s still weak from his bypass.” It was a lie, an obvious one, because five months had passed since Earl’s surgery. But who was going to argue? She picked up a plate. “I’m going to get something to eat.” “Please do.” Felix stepped back a pace and returned her evasiveness with a delicate smile. It was her fault for allowing Earl to meet her friends in the first place. She’d brought him along to the Fourth of July party a year ago and introduced him to everyone as her “roommate.” As though this would explain anything. He was seventy, she was forty-five. She may as well have called him her chef or her architect—it would have sounded more plausible. The minute she left him alone, he’d drifted off into an empty hallway. She’d discovered him an hour later in the foyer, talking to Felix about Hiroshima. Laughter from the party floated in from the yard while Earl went on about the Japanese who had jumped into the Motoyasu River only to be scalded alive by boiling water. She felt her heels sinking into the lawn as she walked. Most of the other guests were wearing loafers or sneakers. A few had gathered around the grill to listen to the Georgian, the man Taia had mentioned. It was hard to tell if he was handsome or not; Ilona had seen him on the way into the party and had noted the light-gray eyes and crooked lower teeth, a combination that stirred an almost queasy sympathy in her. He looked younger than the men around him, possibly as young as thirty-five, yet he appeared to be on the brink of a decline that might be rapid, so that, when he finally did age, he would do so overnight. “They told me they were guarding a base,” the Georgian said, as the men parted to make room for Ilona. “They said that their friend had been shot in the hand and needed drugs to relieve the pain. I offered antibiotics, but they wanted morphine.” She had no idea which war he was speaking of. It could have been Abkhazia or South Ossetia. She’d left Georgia three years before the republic had split from Russia, and its new problems—which autonomous province wanted independence next—had little impact on her. She’d heard of addicts in Tbilisi raiding hospitals even in peacetime. Perhaps it was the snobbery of distance: nothing would ever change there. “I wanted to get out,” he went on. “But when I stood up one of them was pointing a rifle in my face.” “But you had a gun!” one of the men interrupted. “You should have shot him in the mouth!” “Which mouth?” another said. “There were two of them!” “I did something more dangerous than that,” the Georgian continued. “I began to curse. I called them every name I could think of, hoping to alert someone who might overhear me. But I was running out of profanities.” He paused, glancing at Ilona. He looked surprised by the silent attention he had drawn. “Aren’t you going to tell us if you survived?” Ilona asked. “Thank you,” he said, nodding. “I did survive.” He had a long jaw with a dimpled chin; it was the only feature that lent any merriment to his face. “I heard a vehicle drive into the hospital yard. The addicts thought it was a carload of soldiers. But it was only a man with an attack of pancreatitis.” “Pancreatitis? He must have been an alcoholic,” Ilona said. The Georgian acknowledged her mutely with his brows. He waited for the people around him to disperse into smaller groups. “He was. You work in an alcohol clinic?” “No, a urologist’s office. But I was a nurse in Tbilisi,” she said. “And what do you do now?” “Catheters, rectal exams. Technically, I am only a receptionist, so I also pick up the phone. But that’s the only legal thing I do.” “Then your work is closer to medicine than mine,” he said. “During the day I lay carpet.” “And at night?” “At night I clean supermarkets.” “Then I wish you luck finding something more suited to your skills.” The man’s eyes flitted across her face, as if they couldn’t decide which part to examine first. “That may be hard for me to do without a work permit. My visa expires in a month.” “And after that?” He shrugged. “We’ll see. I am Thomaz,” he said, offering his hand. She squeezed it lightly. “Ilona.” He held on to her fingers. “In my life I have met only two Ilonas, and both of you are very beautiful.” She felt heat rising in her face. So he is this kind of man, she thought. He was standing close, and she had to look up to speak to him. “You live in the city?” she said. Thomaz aimed his dimpled chin at a heavyset man with a short, square beard. “Yosif is a cousin of my friend in Chiatura. He and his wife are letting me stay in their apartment in Brooklyn. Their son is at college and I’m taking his bed. It is awkward sometimes. I help buy food. If I have to use the bathroom at night, I tiptoe. But I’m not complaining.” He touched his hand to his heart. “I am grateful. I feel as though I need to lose three limbs and an eye before I can be sorry for myself.” An illegal who cleaned supermarkets . . . She smiled to herself. This was all they could find for her? And yet she suspected he knew his appeal to women, and that in the worst of times he could still rely on it. “It is a nice place here,” he continued, looking around the property. Ilona followed his gaze down to the small rectangular pond. A dog was barking in a distant yard. “All this space,” he said, shaking his head. “I am inside all the time now. It has been too long since I’ve seen woods, nature. The spirit starts to forget.” “This is hardly nature,” she said. “But if you want to see nature you should come back and walk the trails. I could pick you up at the station. The trains run every hour.” Her voice had slipped into the perfect fluency of half-truth. When was the last time she had gone hiking? The sun and the mosquitoes bothered her. “You live nearby?” he said. “Not far.” “In a house like this?” “An apartment.” He was staring at her fingers. “I share with a roommate,” she added clumsily. “You are not married, then?” Ilona gave a bland, cheerful laugh. “Not anymore.” “Your rings. I didn’t know . . . ” She straightened her fingers and examined her hand at a distance. “Some might say they are extravagant. But I invest in living.” “Who knows here?” He laughed. “There is a ring for everything. For university, for fiancé, for boyfriend.” “Well, some of them were gifts,” she said. “But not contractual ones.” By the time Ilona got home it was dark. The dog was at her feet as soon as she unlocked the door. “Quiet, Elsa,” she whispered, and knelt down to let the dog lap at her palm. On its short dachshund legs it followed Ilona down the darkened hallway, where she slipped off her shoes and set them on a shoe rack next to Earl’s. Heel to toe, their feet were practically the same size. It seemed perverse that, given all the things in the world they didn’t have in common, shoe size would be something they shared. She walked barefoot across the carpet to where Earl lay dozing on the couch. A plaid throw hugged his hard ridge of stomach. The air was stale with the yeasty scent of bread. Earl had probably spent the afternoon grilling cheese sandwiches, buttering the pan to get a good, deep fry. Ilona leaned over the couch and tugged a creased newspaper out from under Earl’s knees, then picked up his bottle of hypertension pills from the coffee table. A glass of water had left a bloated white stain on the wood. Ilona lifted it and rubbed at the polish, but that made it worse. She carried the pills and the glass into the kitchen, which was separated from the living room only by the switch from carpet to tile. “Like mopping up a child’s ass,” she said to the dog, which waddled in after her. The room she slept in had once been Earl’s office. He’d cleared it out for her when she moved in, and now tall file cabinets and a gray plastic computer desk occupied one side of the living room. She’d asked him to get rid of them, but he said he needed to have all his old files available in case someone from the insurance office called. Six years the man had been retired. Ilona rolled up her sleeves and lowered her hands into the sink. Earl was muttering something in his sleep and turning over on his side. A growth of silver stubble had sprouted on his cheeks. He barked a cough and opened his eyes. “What time is it, Luna?” he said, slowly rotating himself into a sitting position. He squinted at the clock on the VCR. “Seven-thirty? That can’t be right.” He found his glasses, adjusted the pads, and pressed them to his nose. He had a thick nose, German and retroussé, the kind glasses easily slid off. “You told me you were coming home at six. Didn’t we have plans tonight, Luna?” “Did we?” “It’s Saturday, Luna. I had to call Delmonico’s twice so they’d hold our table.” She ignored him and continued rinsing. When had going to Delmonico’s become one of her duties? Now that the maître d’ greeted them as Mr. and Mrs. Brauer, Earl didn’t like to miss a Saturday night. She dumped out a teacup and began to untwine the wet string from the handle. “It’s a good thing I called,” he said, and raised his heavy body off the couch. Ilona tossed the tea bag into the trash. “Call or don’t call. They always say they’ll hold our table, Earl. Because there’s nothing to hold. Every time we go to that restaurant, it’s half empty.” “You don’t like Delmonico’s now?” “I don’t care, Earl.” She rinsed a plate and crammed it into the drying rack. “Does it matter what restaurant we go to this week? Can I just finish these dishes?” His lower lip hung open as he searched for a thought. “Earl.” “What?” He looked up, a white hair from his brow drooping into his eye. “We have to trim your eyebrows.” His eyes scrolled up. He licked his thumb, then smoothed it over each brow. When he finished, he took a few silent steps toward his room. Ilona waited until he had closed the door, then wiped her hands on a hanging apron and went into her room. She could hear him moving around on the other side of the wall. She knelt down beside the old-fashioned trunk that doubled as her night table. There was barely enough room in the tiny closet for all of her things. On good days, she tried to imagine that the office she lived in was a cabin on a ship and that she was in the middle of a journey across the Atlantic of another century. Kneeling, she removed the densely packed sweaters and beaded scarves one by one until she found a flesh-pink cashmere sweater. It was finely combed and as thin as lambskin; she had thought about saving it for a more interesting occasion. But now she bit through the plastic line of the tag and snapped it off. There would be other items for other occasions. She allowed her new clothes periods of latency that could last weeks or even months. This way, when she finally did take off the tags it was with the satisfaction of unsealing a ripe bottle of brandy. And if some people thought she was extravagant she was only preparing herself for a future that was far more uncertain than theirs. Would Earl ever have knocked on her door if she had looked any different? Would he have asked her to join him for a neighborly cup of coffee the very week she’d decided to move out of her apartment, three doors down? Would he have given her the sewing machine she’d admired? Or a fur coat two weeks later? And while she’d had to decline the fur (it smelled like naphthalene and had obviously belonged to his dead wife), she’d got something better. Very politely, she had told him that she had no room for it now, because she was planning to move out of the neighborhood. It had become too expensive for her to live here—with her credit-card debts, car payments, and the money she’d paid in advance for nursing classes she discovered she had no time to attend. She spoke undramatically, but, like the best actresses, she had an instinct for timing. “But Mrs. Siegal,” Earl had said, “a woman like you should never have to worry about money.” And that was when he’d offered her his old office. She could stay as long as she needed to, as long as it took her to get her finances in order. That had been a year and a half ago. She could hear Earl padding around the hallway now. She pulled off her shirt and slipped on the sweater. Her eyes looked tired in the mirror. Her hair seemed a shade closer to purple than to the burgundy she’d dyed it two weeks ago. She pulled it up from the nape of her neck and fixed it with a large lacquered pin. Right this way, Mr. Brauer, Mrs. Brauer. That’s how the waiters would greet them at Delmonico’s. Did she really look old enough to pass for his wife? Or were they playing the game, too? Well, it didn’t matter to her what these people believed, whether they thought she was his wife or his girlfriend or his mistress. She was happy to coöperate with whatever public fantasy he had planned. Earl was outside the door, knocking. “I’ll be a second!” Ilona called. What was she supposed to tell people—that even if Earl did want to he had his hypertension and his arrhythmia to worry about? Not to mention his prostate surgery four years earlier. For all she knew he was impotent, and it was more of a relief to him than a disappointment if she rebuffed his attentions. He knocked again. “Yes!” she said, opening the door. Earl’s striped shirt was buttoned almost to his chin. He stood in the doorway wearing his slacks and slippers. In his hand was a pair of manicure scissors. “Let’s do this quickly,” Ilona said. She let him watch her while she unfolded a sheet of newspaper in the bathroom sink. “Lean over, Aristotle Onassis.” Earl closed his eyes and tipped his face toward the mirror. “Here’s our friend,” she said, finding the errant hair and snipping it. She trimmed the rest, and then with the back of her hand brushed the clippings from his moist face onto the newspaper. When he opened his eyes again, he stood up straight. “Luna, you’re my angel,” he said, meeting her reflected eyes. Delmonico’s always made Ilona think of a hotel restaurant. The trellis-patterned carpet, the mirrored walls, the sense that its patrons were dining there only because they were too tired to search for something more interesting. But it was expensive, and for this reason Earl always seemed to enjoy it. She watched him hitch up his sleeves and open the leather-bound menu. He took to the business of ordering with an almost proprietary seriousness. “You can’t fool me,” she said, smiling. “I know you’re looking at the calf’s liver.” “Nah, I wasn’t, angel.” “Look at this, the steak comes with bacon. How can we keep coming here after what your doctor said?” “I’ve been good, Luna.” “You’ve been good? Is that why the apartment smelled like grilled cheese when I came in?” “I made those for Lawrence. He came by today with Lucinda.” “Your son just dropped in?” “They asked where you were. I said you were visiting your friends. Nothing wrong with that.” Ilona stared at him. “Is something supposed to be wrong with it?” “You know, they always have their own ideas.” Ilona folded her menu and placed it to the side of her plate. “What ideas?” “They worry, you know. After the surgery. They think I ought to get an aide, just someone to come and check on me once in a while.” It was possible that he was making it up, she thought, as revenge for her not having taken him to the party. “They think a professional can take better care of you than me?” Earl didn’t lift his head. “I told them I was fine.” “It’s strange the idea didn’t cross their minds when you had pneumonia and I took a week off work.” She sipped her glass of water. “I told them it was silly. I’m fine. I don’t need anyone.” She could see that he regretted telling her. He’d started sweating, and she felt sorry for him. Ilona took a deep breath and slid her hand across the tablecloth to pet his. “I’ll always take the best care of you,” she said. They sat like that until the waiter approached. Ilona looked up at the young man and smiled. “I will have the tagliatelle pasta,” she told him. “And sir?” “He will have fish,” she answered. Thomaz was arriving on the six-twenty. She left the clinic at five-forty and drove straight to the train station. By the time she joined the snaking line of cars at the platform, her windshield was speckled with rain. She gazed at the children twisting in the back seat of the car ahead, bouncing and looking out the windows every few minutes for the silver flash of train. Finally, it came, with a high squealing of brakes, and Ilona watched the crowd disappear under the covered stairwell and spill out again on the rain-slicked street. When she saw Thomaz, her stomach tightened. He was standing on the sidewalk, shielding his head with his hand. He wore an orange-and-coffee Windbreaker that was too large for him. Her guess was that he’d picked it out of a charity bin. He spotted her car, and she had no choice but to lift her fingers in a weak wave before she reached over to unlock the passenger door. He got in and laid his wet backpack on his lap, then pressed his head against the window and looked at the sky, which had dimmed to a bruised purple. “I’m sorry,” she said, turning on the radio. “I should have checked the weather.” “Maybe it will stop in an hour,” he said optimistically. But it didn’t. It continued as they drove down the parkway, the heavy drops pounding the windshield and the radio bridging the silence between them. It continued as Ilona steered the car up Taia and Felix’s narrow driveway, paved now with fallen leaves. They ran inside the house and took off their shoes and turned on the heat. Ilona told Thomaz to make himself comfortable on the leather couch, while she disappeared into the kitchen and fed the cat its supper from a tin can. When she returned to the living room, he was holding a small parcel wrapped in coarse tissue paper. “A souvenir from Tbilisi,” he said, handing it to her. “It’s only silver, but I thought you might like it.” It was a bracelet: stones set in twisted wire like flower petals. She molded it around her wrist and leaned in to kiss his cheek. “Thank you,” she said, and went back into the kitchen to make tea. It was half past seven, and Earl was probably waiting for her. She thought of taking the walk she had promised Thomaz once the rain stopped. But it was too dark now, and already she knew that she would not be driving him back to the station tonight. She heard the TV in the background when Earl picked up. “What are you doing?” she said. “I’m watching ‘Schindler’s List.’ ” “Can you lower the volume?” The background voices died down. “I got the movie because you wanted to see it.” “I’m staying at Taia’s tonight. Did you eat dinner?” “Yeah, I made some canned beans.” “I left you real food in the refrigerator.” “I looked. Couldn’t find anything.” “Earl, I left you chicken. And the steamed vegetables are in the glass container.” “I ate those yesterday.” “I made them for both days.” “You didn’t tell me anything about it.” The TV voices got louder again. She listened silently for a moment, until she could hear his strained breathing. “Are you still there?” she asked. “Where am I going?” “Did you take your pills?” “I took them. They never do anything.” He was just being difficult now. “What is it, Earl?” He coughed into the phone. “I’ve got chest pressure.” “Is it in your chest or your upper abdomen?” “I don’t know. Just . . . general.” “It’s very different.” He didn’t answer. “It could be the beans,” she said. “I promised Taia, but do you want me to come home?” “No.” It was a halfhearted reply. “Maybe I’ll call Lawrence.” “Lawrence? If you aren’t sick . . .” She stopped herself. “I’ll come home if you want,” she said again. “I’ll be fine.” The teakettle whistled. “I’ll call you later,” she said, hanging up. She found a dish towel and poured the boiling water into two porcelain cups on a carved metal tray that she’d taken from one of Taia’s display shelves. She carried it into the living room, where Thomaz had stood up. He was running his fingers over the leaded glass of a Deco lamp. “It must be nice to live in a home like this,” he said. Ilona set down the tray. “I don’t envy anyone.” It was hard to tell if he was smiling or sneering. His face seemed to say, “Yes, this is also an answer, but not to the question I asked.” She had imagined she’d take great pleasure in showing off Taia’s house. And she was happy that he seemed impressed, as much by the high sloping ceiling as by the heavy art books in the built-in bookcases, and even the bird’s nest retrieved from the back yard, which spoke to a kind of collecting pleasure that transcended mere attainment. She wanted him to feel the character behind these things. And yet it was not her character, and she had to repress the urge to say that she might have done the room differently, that she would have placed the furniture closer to the windows or painted the walls a brighter color, a color she could wrap herself in. Thomaz circled the couch and lowered himself into the overstuffed armchair. “I look around here and everything is clean, nice,” he said. “People work, they do well.” She knelt on the rug by the glass table and dipped a tea bag into her cup. “Not everyone. Some people fold, they lose themselves here.” Thomaz watched her. “Like your husband?” “Maybe if he had got an earlier start, but . . .” She shrugged. “But?” “To make it here, you have to want to be here.” “I see. He did not want to come to America?” “We had a good life in Tbilisi,” she said, watching a ribbon of color spread in her cup. “Good job, good apartment.” “Then why did you leave?” “Everybody was leaving, all our friends. I didn’t want to be in the last wagon on the train.” How else would she explain it, she thought? Could she say that she had followed a man who was not her husband to America? A man whose wife was her closest friend and who had become involved with her only because he was leaving the country soon and thought that she would stay behind? Or that she’d stayed with her husband because she’d been too scared to make the long journey alone? She had been thirty-two then, and without children, not young, perhaps, but young enough for her choices to seem reversible. “My husband was an administrator at an electronics institute,” she said. “You know what that means: he knew how to tell a joke, how much to slip in someone’s palm. He was a smart dog. He knew when to bark and when to lick. But none of that helped him here. He tried programming, like everyone else. But it only gave him ulcers.” Her husband’s whole being had recoiled from survival the way a half-asleep person recoils from the light. She had felt responsible for a while, but then war, the upheavals of independence in Georgia, had absolved her. The friends who had stayed began to write letters full of horror stories: demonstrations stopped by troops armed with shovels and clubs, backed by tanks, spraying tear gas and chloropicrin in people’s faces. Then the electronics institute had closed, bankrupt without the contracts that had come from Russia. The Russian families they knew were fleeing and settling in remote towns where the government in Moscow had given them asylum and a bit of land. Even if her husband had wanted to return, there would have been nothing to return to. “He isn’t doing badly now,” she said to Thomaz. “He went to San Antonio to work at his cousin’s furniture store.” Thomaz leaned over the table and picked up his teacup. “Your husband’s weakness irritated you?” The question seemed aimed more at himself than at her. She answered automatically, “No. We were not a good match from the beginning.” “When a man can’t support his family . . .” He was leaning back in his chair, shaking his head. “In my town, the men are all dying younger. They have heart attacks, strokes. But really it is because they’ve lost their purpose.” Ilona looked up at him from the floor. “Have you?” “No, because I am here.” He sipped his tea and set the cup down. “When I returned from Abkhazia, I could find no work. Then a clinic gave me a job. But no one paid us, at least not with money. And now people don’t go to doctors at all.” “What do they do?” “They die at home.” Ilona rested her palm on his fingers. “I’m sorry,” he said. “All these sad stories.” He parted his lips to add something more, then shut them on his thought. She took his hand. The skin of his knuckles was as smooth and tough as a walnut shell. He interlaced his fingers with hers, and before she could feel her sweat or pulse he was lifting her up, as a person would pull someone out of water, until her body was again doing what it knew and sinking deeply into the saddle of his lap. She allowed him to kiss first her hands and then her face. She kept her eyes closed while Thomaz kissed the line of her jaw and the curve of her neck. When his lips moved down, she pressed her face into his hair and inhaled the smell of the weather he had brought inside with him. Upstairs, he was only a flicking shadow, the taut muscles of a back and the scratchiness of a cheek. He moved his weight over her with slow concentration, the two of them conscientious to avoid clumsiness, not testing each other, careful not to trample whatever small force they’d generated. Afterward, they lay together in silence. When the air became too warm, she asked Thomaz to open a window. “Tell me something,” she said when he returned to the crumpled bed. She rolled onto her stomach and ran her fingers over the straight ridges of his forehead and nose, down to the stubbled cleft of his chin. “You were too young to have been a doctor during Abkhazia.” “I was twenty-five. I had finished medical school. I did not consider myself young. The soldiers were younger. Nobody taught them anything. They didn’t even know how to part with the dead.” He tugged a sheet over his shoulder, for the room had got cool. “One night, three boys brought in a fourth. I could see as soon as they carried him in that there was nothing left to do for him. They shouted at me to rescue him. One fired a bullet into the ceiling. I forced fluid into his body so his heart would have something to beat. I kept going in front of his friends. I pumped his chest, just for show. It was worse than anything I had done to a living person.” He turned away from her toward the wall. His body was still stiff a few minutes later, and she knew he hadn’t fallen asleep. “Do you have children?” she asked, finally. Thomaz rolled onto his back and breathed in the room’s chill air. “I have a son. He will be twelve next month.” “And your wife . . .” “He and my wife are with my mother in Chiatura. My parents have a house there. I will probably also stay there when I go back.” She found the crook of his arm and curled her head into it. “It’s good to have a place to go back to,” she said. They awoke at noon, to the sun leaking through the blinds. On the way back to the station, she drove him through the well-laid-out neighborhoods of Tarrytown—down the tree-lined streets, through the park, and past the tennis courts that gleamed in the sun. “Maybe next time I can see your home?” he said as she pulled up to the station. She smiled and planted a dry kiss on his lips. In a diner across the road, she drank a cup of coffee. She considered the menu and put it aside. The coffee was strong enough to quench her hunger, and soon she would return home to cook Earl’s supper. She felt as if her body had taken a long, full breath. She’d forgotten the way sex could sweep the clutter from the mind, and now she wanted to sit and inhabit this emptiness awhile longer. Elsa was yapping when Ilona opened the door. The air inside was cold, laced with the bitter scent of carbon, the smell of oil that had burned and then cooled. “Earl?” she called into the living room. She walked into his bedroom and found the bed made. “Earl?” she called again, louder. She’d left the heavy front door open and now someone was knocking scratchily on the screen door. “Hello?” Ilona said, stepping halfway into the hall. “Mr. Brauer?” It was the woman from next door. Her name might have been Martha, but Ilona had never asked. “Do you need something?” Ilona looked the woman up and down. She was in a sweatshirt and her thighs bulged under black leggings. “I just wanted to see if Mr. Brauer was back.” The woman cocked her head for a better look inside. “Back from?” “I guess you weren’t here this morning, then, when the ambulance came? It was pretty early. Woke me up.” The woman rested her eyes on Ilona’s sweater, her handbag and shoes. “He isn’t back,” Ilona answered. “Now, please excuse me. I was picking up a few things to take to the hospital for him.” “Weren’t you just calling him,” the woman asked. “I was speaking to the dog,” Ilona answered. The receptionist at Phelps Memorial would tell her only that Earl had been taken to the cardiac ward at 9:30 a.m. Was she an immediate relative? “No,” Ilona said. “I am his . . .” She threw a glance down the hall and saw Lawrence stepping out of the large steel elevator with his wife, Lucinda. “Just a second,” she said to the girl. She slipped her rings into her palm and dropped them into her purse. “I am his companion,” she said, turning back. “Companion,” the receptionist repeated to herself and searched her monitor. Ilona stepped away from the desk and threw Lucinda a sympathetic smile that was ignored. When Lawrence looked at her, his face was reproachful, but not, thank God, pained with grief. If they still had energy left for civilized hostility, she thought, Earl was certainly all right. “How is he?” she said, approaching. “Fine,” Lawrence said. “He’s fine.” He seemed disappointed not to be able to tell something worse. The doctors had told them that it was an anxiety attack, but with a patient who’d already had one myocardial infarction they had to take all complaints seriously. They were still doing blood work, Lawrence said. They would finish the serial cardiograms this afternoon. “In that case, I will stay with him today,” she said. Lawrence threw a glance at Lucinda. “We don’t think that’s a good idea,” he said. Like his father, he was not tall. His hair curled in a single wave on top of his head. “He will be staying with us at our house for a day or two.” “He likes his apartment . . .” Ilona stared at both of them, confused. “This is what he wants?” “It doesn’t matter what he wants,” Lucinda said. “What matters is his health.” “We like you, Ilona,” Lawrence said. “But wouldn’t it be better for you to be in the company of a more . . . energetic person? My father is weak. He has his illusions. But they can damage him.” He seemed to be memorizing his shoes. “You can stay at the apartment for a little while,” he said. She did not ask him how long “a little while” meant. Like anyone else, Lawrence would be gracious until the time came to be cruel. Back at the apartment, she set a frying pan on the stove and poured in some oil. Through the window she could see the trees turning dark under the softening evening sky. At her feet, Elsa nibbled a few squares of salami. Ilona cracked two eggs and whisked them, then poured the mixture into the pan and watched it spread on the surface of the oil. If she left, she would take the dog with her. Earl wouldn’t challenge her on that. Her plans struck her with the kind of certainty that overtakes the mind after a day of hunger. She could fly to Alaska, where the men were as plentiful as salmon. Or she could rent a cheap basement apartment in Ossining and invite Thomaz for the weekend. She laughed at the thought of them, in a windowless white-painted brick basement, refusing to feel sorry for themselves because neither of them had lost three limbs or an eye. He believed that his hardships had galvanized him, but she knew that anyone could be fearless as long as there was no other option. In her case, it wouldn’t be so easy. As soon as Earl walked in the door and saw her boxes spread out on the floor, he would ask her where she thought she was going. He’d tell her to drop it all and offer to take her shopping, and if she resisted he’d beg her to stay. How good giving in would feel. Tomorrow, she would begin to pack. She tipped her omelette onto a thin dinner plate, chopped the chives on the cutting board, and sprinkled them over the top. A little garnish always made it taste better. 
Cowboy The old fella makes me go into the house in my stocking feet. The old lady’s in a big chair next to the window. In fact, the whole room is full of big chairs, but she’s only in one of them—though, big as she is, she could fill up several. The old man says, “I found this one in the loose-horse pen at the sale yard.” She says, “What’s he supposed to be?” He says, “Supposed to be a cowboy.” “What’s he doin in the loose horses?” I says, “I was lookin for one that would ride.” “You was in the wrong pen, son,” the old man says. “Them’s canners. They’re goin to France in cardboard boxes.” “Soon as they get a steel bolt in the head.” The big old gal laughs in her chair. Now I’m sore. “There’s five in there broke to death. I rode ’em with nothin but binder twine.” “It don’t make a shit,” the old man says. “Ever one of them is goin to France.” The old lady don’t believe me. “How’d you get in them loose horses to ride?” “I went in there at night.” The old lady says, “You one crazy cowboy, go in there in the dark. Them broncs kick your teeth down your throat. I suppose you tried them bareback?” “Naw, I drug the saddle I usually ride at the Rose Bowl Parade.” “You got a horse for that?” “I got Trigger. We unstuffed him.” The old lady addresses the old man. “He’s got a mouth on him. This much we know.” “Maybe he can tell us what good he is.” I says, “I’m a cowboy.” “You’re a outta-work cowboy.” “It’s a dying way of life.” “She’s about like me—she’s wondering if this ranch’s supposed to be some kinda welfare agency for cowboys.” I’ve had enough. “You’re the dumb honyocker drove me out here.” I think that’ll be the end of it, but the old lady says, “Don’t get huffy. You got the job. You against conversation or something?” We get outside and the old sumbitch says, “You drawed lucky there, son. That last deal could’ve pissed her off.” “It didn’t make me no nevermind if it did or didn’t.” “She hadn’t been well. Used to she was sweet as pudding.” “I’m sorry for that. We don’t have health, we don’t have nothin.” She must have been afflicted something terrible, because she was ugly morning, noon, and night for as long as she lasted—she’d pick a fight over nothing and the old sumbitch got the worst of it. I felt sorry for him, little slack as he cut me. Had a hundred seventy-five sweet-tempered horned Herefords and fifteen sleepy bulls. Shipped the calves all over for hybrid vigor, mostly to the South. Had some go clear to Florida. A Hereford that still had its horns was a walking miracle, and the old sumbitch had a smart little deal going. I soon learned to give him credit for such things, and the old lady barking commands offen the sofa weren’t no slouch neither. Anybody else seen their books might’ve said they could be wintering in Phoenix. They didn’t have no bunkhouse, just a LeisureLife mobile home that had lost its wheels about thirty years ago, and they had it positioned by the door of the barn so it’d be convenient for the hired man to stagger out at all hours and fight breech births and scours and any other disorder sent us by the cow gods. We had some doozies. One heifer got pregnant and her calf was near as big as she was. Had to reach in with a saw and take it out in pieces. When we threw the head out on the ground, she turned to it and lowed like it was her baby. Everything a cow does is designed to turn it into meat as fast as possible so that somebody can eat it. It’s a terrible life. The old sumbitch and I got along good. We got through calving and got to see them pairs and bulls run out onto the new grass. Nothing like seeing all that meat feel a little temporary joy. Then we bladed out the corrals and watched them dry under the spring sun at long last. Only mishap was when the manure spreader threw a rock and knocked me senseless and I drove the rig into an irrigation ditch. The old sumbitch never said a word but chained up and pulled us out with his Ford. We led his cavvy out of the hills afoot with two buckets of sweet feed. Had a little of everything, including a blue roan I fancied, but he said it was a Hancock and bucked like the National Finals in Las Vegas, kicking out behind and squalling, and was just a man-killer. “Stick to the bays,” he said. “The West was won on a bay horse.” He picked out three bays, had a keg of shoes, all ones and oughts, and I shod them best I could, three geldings with nice manners, stood good to shoe. About all you could say about the others was they had four legs each, and a couple, all white-marked from saddle galls and years of hard work, looked like no more summers after this. They’d been rode many a long mile. We chased ’em back into the hills and the three shod ones whinnied and fretted. “Back to work,” the old sumbitch says to them. We shod three ’cause one was going to pack a ton of fencing supplies—barb wire, smooth wire, steel T-posts, old wore-out Sunflower fence stretchers that could barely grab on to the wire, and staples—and we was at it a good little while where the elk had knocked miles of it down, or the cedar finally give out and had to be replaced by steel. That was where I found out that the old sumbitch’s last good time was in Korea, where the officers at the front would yell over the radio, “Come on up here and die!” Said the enemy was coming in waves. Tells me all this while the stretcher’s pulling that wire squealing though the staples. The sumbitch was a tough old bastard. “They killed a pile of us and we killed a pile of them.” Squeak. We hauled the mineral horseback, too, in panniers—white salt and iodine salt. He didn’t have no use for blocks, so we hauled it in sacks and poured it into the troughs he had on all these bald hilltops where the wind would blow away the flies. Most of his so-called troughs were truck tires nailed onto anything flat—plywood, old doors, and suchlike—but they worked good. A cow can put her tongue anywhere in a tire and get what she needs, and you can drag one of them flat things with your horse if you need to move it. Most places we salted had old buffalo wallers where them buffalo wallered. They done wallered their last—had to get out of the way for the cow and the man on the bay horse. I’d been rustling my own grub in the LeisureLife for quite some time when the old lady said it was time for me to eat with the white folks. This was not necessarily a good thing. The old lady’s knee replacements had begun to fail, and both me and the old sumbitch was half afraid of her. She cooked as good as ever, but she was a bomb waiting to go off, standing bowlegged at the stove and talking ugly about how much she did for us. When she talked, the old sumbitch would move his mouth as though he was saying the same words, and we had to keep from giggling, which wasn’t hard. For if the old lady caught us at that there’d a been hell to pay. Both the old sumbitch and the old lady was heavy smokers, to where a oxygen bottle was in sight. So they joined a Smoke-Enders deal the Lutherans had, and this required them to put all their butts in a jar and wear the jar around their necks on a string. The old sumbitch liked this O.K. because he could just tap his ash right under his chin and not get it on the truck seat, but the more that thing filled up and hung around her neck the meaner the old lady got. She had no idea the old sumbitch was cheating and setting his jar on the woodpile when we was working outside. She was just more honest than him, and in the end she give up smoking and he smoked away, except he wasn’t allowed to smoke in the house no more, nor buy ready-mades, ’cause the new tax made them too expensive and she wouldn’t let him take it out of the cows, which come first. She said it was just a vice and if he was half the man she thought he was he’d give it up as a bad deal. “You could have a long and happy old age,” she said, real sarcastic-like. One day me and the old sumbitch is in the house hauling soot out of the fireplace, on account of they had a chimbley fire last winter. Over the mantel is a picture of a beautiful woman in a red dress with her hair piled on top of her head. The old sumbitch tells me that’s the old lady before she joined the motorcycle gang. “Oh?” “Them motorcycle gangs,” he says, “all they do is eat and work on their motorcycles. They taught her to smoke, too, but she’s shut of that. Probably outlive us all.” “Looks to me she can live long as she wants.” “And if she ever wants to box you, tell her no. She’ll knock you on your ass. I guarantee it. Throw you a damn haymaker, son.” I couldn’t understand how he could be so casual-like about the old lady being in a motorcycle gang. When we was smoking in the LeisureLife, I asked him about it. That’s when I found out that him and the old lady was brother and sister. I guess that explained it. If your sister wants to join a motorcycle gang, that’s her business. He said she even had a tattoo—“Hounds from Hell,” with a dog shooting flames out of his nostrils and riding a Harley. That picture on the mantel kind of stayed in my mind, and I asked the old sumbitch if his sister’d ever had a boyfriend. Well, yes, quite a few, he told me, quite a damn few. “Our folks run them off. They was just after the land.” He was going all around the baler hitting the zerks with his grease gun. “I had a lady friend myself. She’d do anything. Cook. Gangbusters with a snorty horse, and not too damn hard on the eyes. Sis run her off. Said she was just after the land. If she was, I never could see it. Anyway, went on down the road long time ago.” Fall come around and when we brought the cavvy down two of them old-timers who’d worked so hard was lame. One was stifled, one was sweenied, and both had crippling quarter cracks. I thought they needed to be at the loose-horse sale, but the old sumbitch says, “No mounts of mine is gonna feed no Frenchman,” and that was that. So we made a hole, led the old-timers to the edge, and shot them with a elk rifle. First one didn’t know what hit him. Second one heard the shot and saw his buddy fall and the old sumbitch had to chase him around to kill him. Then he sent me down the hole to get the halters back. Lifting those big heads was some chore. I enjoyed eating in the big house that whole summer until the sister started giving me come-hither looks. They was fairly limited except those days when the old sumbitch was in town after supplies. Then she dialled it up and kind of brushed me every time she went past the table. There was always something special on the town days—a pie, maybe. I tried to think about the picture on the mantel, but it was impossible, even though I knew it might get me out of the LeisureLife once and for all. She was getting more and more wound up, while I was pretending to enjoy the food or going crazy over the pie. But she didn’t buy it—called me a queer and sent me back to the trailer to make my own meals. By calling me a queer, she more or less admitted what she’d been up to, and I think that embarrassed her, because she covered up by roaring at everyone and everything, including the poor old sumbitch, who had no idea what had gone sideways while he was away. It was two years before she made another pie, and then it was once a year on my birthday. She made me five birthday pies in all—sand cherry, every one of them. I broke the catch colt, which I didn’t know was no colt, as he was the biggest snide in the cavvy. He was four, and it was time. I just got around him for a couple of days, then saddled him gently as I could. The offside stirrup scared him, and he looked over at it, but that was all it was to saddling. I must’ve had a burst of courage, ’cause next minute I was on him. That was O.K., too. I told the old sumbitch to open the corral gate, and we sailed away. The wind blew his tail up under him, and he thought about bucking but rejected the idea and that was about all they was to breaking Olly, for that was his name. Once I’d rode him two weeks, he was safe for the old sumbitch, who plumb loved this new horse and complimented me generously for the job I’d did. We had three hard winters in a row, then lost so many calves to scours we changed our calving grounds. The old sumbitch just come out one day and looked at where he’d calved out for fifty years and said, “The ground’s no good. We’re movin.” So we spent the summer building a new corral way off down the creek. When we’s finished, he says, “I meant to do this when I got back from overseas and now it’s finished and I’m practically done for, too. Whoever gets the place next will be glad his calves don’t shit themselves into the next world like mine done.” Neither one of us had a back that was worth a damn, and the least we could do was get rid of the square baler and quit hefting them man-killing five-wire bales. We got a round baler and a DewEze machine that let us pick up a bale from the truck without laying a finger on it. We’d tell stories and smoke in the cab on those cold winter days and roll out a thousand pounds of hay while them old-time horned Herefords followed the truck. That’s when I let him find out I’d done some time. “I figured you musta been in the crowbar hotel.” “How’s that?” “Well, you’re a pretty good hand. What’s a pretty good hand doin tryin loose horses in the middle of the night at some Podunk sale yard? Folks hang on to a pretty good hand and nobody was hangin on to you. You want to tell me what you done?” I’d been with the old sumbitch for three years and out of jail the same amount of time. I wasn’t afraid to tell him what I done ’cause I had started to trust him, but I sure didn’t want him telling nothing to his sister. I told him I rustled some yearlings, and he chuckled like he understood entirely. I had rustled some yearlings, all right, but that’s not what I went up for. The old man paid me in cash, or, rather, the old lady did, since she handled anything like that. They never paid into workmen’s comp, and there was no reason to go to the records. They didn’t even have my name right. You tell people around here your name is Shane and they’ll always believe you. The important thing is I was working my tail off for that old sumbitch, and he knew it. Nothing else mattered, even the fact that we’d come to like each other. After all, this was a God damn ranch. The old fella had several peculiarities to him, most of which I’ve forgotten. He was one of the few fellas I ever heard of who would actually jump up and down on his hat if he got mad enough. You can imagine what his hat looked like. One time he did it ’cause I let the swather get away from me on a hill and bent it all to hell. Another time a Mormon tried to run down his breeding program to get a better deal on some replacement heifers, and I’ll be damned if the old sumbitch didn’t throw that hat down and jump on it, right in front of the Mormon, causing the Mormon to get into his Buick and ease on down the road without another word. One time when we was driving ring shanks into corral poles I hit my thumb and tried jumping on my hat, but the old sumbitch gave me such an odd look I never tried it again. The old lady died sitting down. I went in, and there she was, sitting down, and she was dead. After the first wave of grief, the old sumbitch and me fretted about rigor mortis and not being able to move her in that seated position. So we stretched her onto the couch and called the mortician and he called the coroner and for some reason the coroner called the ambulance, which caused the old sumbitch to state, “It don’t do you no nevermind to tell nobody nothing.” Course he was right. Once the funeral was behind us, I moved out of the LeisureLife, partly for comfort and partly ’cause the old sumbitch falled apart after his sister passed, which I never would’ve suspected. Once she’s gone, he says, he’s all that’s left of his family and he’s alone in life, and about then he notices me and tells me to get my stuff out of the LeisureLife and move in with him. We rode through the cattle pritnear ever day year round, and he come to trust me enough to show how his breeding program went, with culls and breedbacks and outcrosses and replacements, and took me to bull sales and showed me what to expect in a bull and which ones were correct and which were sorry. One day we’s looking at a pen of yearling bulls on this outfit near Luther and he can’t make up his mind and he says he wished his sister was with him and he starts snuffling and says she had an eye on her wouldn’t quit. So I stepped up and picked three bulls out of that pen, and he quit snuffling and said damn if I didn’t have an eye on me, too. That was the beginning of our partnership. One whole year I was the cook, and one whole year he was the cook, and back and forth like that, but never at the same time. Whoever was cook would change when the other fella got sick of his recipes, and ever once in a while a new recipe would come in the AgriNews, like that corn chowder with the sliced hot dogs. I even tried a pie one time, but it just made him lonesome for days gone by, so we forgot about desserts, which was probably good for our health, as most sweets call for gobbing in the white sugar. The sister never let him have a dog ’cause she had a cat and she thought a dog would get the cat. It wasn’t much of a cat, anyhow, but it lived a long time, outlived the old lady by several moons. After it passed on, we took it out to the burn barrel and the first thing the old sumbitch said was “We’re gettin a dog.” It took him that long to realize that his sister was gone. Tony was a Border collie we got as a pup from a couple in Miles City that raised them. You could cup your hands and hold Tony when we got him, but he grew up in one summer and went to work and we taught him “down,” “here,” “come by,” “way to me,” and “hold ’em,” all in one year or less, ’cause Tony would just stay on his belly and study you with his eyes until he knew exactly what you wanted. Tony helped us gather, mother up pairs, and separate bulls, and he lived in the house for many a good year and kept us entertained with all his tricks. Finally, Tony grew old and died. We didn’t take it so good, especially the old sumbitch, who said he couldn’t foresee enough summers for another dog. Plus that was the year he couldn’t get on a horse no more and he wasn’t about to work no stock dog afoot. There was still plenty to do and most of it fell to me. After all, this was a God damn ranch. The time had come to tell him why I went to jail and what I did, which was rob that little store at Absarokee and shoot the proprietor, though he didn’t die. I had no idea why I did such a thing—then or now. I led the crew on the prison ranch for a number of years and turned out many a good hand. They wasn’t nearabout to let me loose until there was a replacement good as me who’d stay a while. So I trained up a murderer from Columbia Falls, could rope, break horses, keep vaccine records, fence, and irrigate. Once the warden seen how good he was, they paroled me out and turned it all over to the new man, who was never getting out. The old sumbitch could give a shit less when I told him my story. I could’ve told him all this years before when he first hired me, for all he cared. He was a big believer in what he saw with his own eyes. I don’t think I ever had the touch with customers the old sumbitch had. They’d come from all over looking for horned Herefords and talking hybrid vigor, which I may or may not have believed. They’d ask what we had and I’d point to the corrals and say, “Go look for yourself.” Some would insist on seeing the old sumbitch and I’d tell them he was in bed, which was pritnear the only place you could find him now that he’d begun to fail. Then the state got wind of his condition and took him to town. I went to see him there right regular, but it just upset him. He couldn’t figure out who I was and got frustrated ’cause he knew I was somebody he was supposed to know. And then he failed even worse. The doctors told me it was just better if I didn’t come round. The neighbors claimed I was personally responsible for the spread of spurge, Dalmatian toadflflax, and knapweed. They got the authorities involved and it was pretty clear that I was the weed they had in mind. If they could get the court to appoint one of their relatives ranch custodian while the old sumbitch was in storage they’d get all that grass for free till he was in a pine box. The authorities came in all sizes and shapes, but when they were through they let me take one saddle horse, one saddle, the clothes on my back, my hat, and my slicker. I rode that horse clear to the sale yard, where they tried to put him in the loose horses ’cause of his age. I told them I was too set in my ways to start feeding Frenchmen and rode off toward Idaho. There’s always an opening for a cowboy, even a old sumbitch like me if he can halfway make a hand. 
Coping Stones Cahill—Dr. Cahill to those who knew him in his small town in Maine—had decided that his screened porch should be relocated. Wouldn’t it be better to winterize the current porch, adding a door at the far end which would lead to a new, smaller porch, perpendicular to the original? That way, he could walk out of the kitchen in the winter with his cup of freshly brewed coffee and his vitamin drink (those mornings when he went to the trouble to make it) and enjoy the late-blooming flowers on an enclosed, heated porch. In the summer, he could set up a makeshift desk—probably just the card table—and not have to worry that rain would ruin his paperwork. There was so much paperwork! His wife, Barbara, used to manage most of it, but she’d been dead for more than eight years, and, except for what his accountant did and the occasional question he asked his tenant, Matt, he dealt with it all himself now, and not a bit of it had anything to do with medicine. Matt lived in Cahill’s renovated barn. Thirty-two years old, he had already suffered a divorce (at twenty-four) and the death of his second wife, who’d been knocked out of her kayak by a low-hanging branch and drowned, in Canada. Several times during the past year, Cahill had noticed Matt coming home with a woman, but he’d also noticed that the woman—or women—almost always left the same night. Once, he had been lured into playing a game of croquet with Matt and a woman named Leora, but usually he avoided contact when Matt had company; he felt that Matt became sour and withdrawn when women were around, as if he were still suffering through adolescence. But Matt—Matt was his preoccupation. Cahill had the sense to extend fewer dinner invitations to his tenant and friend than he wanted to, because the man needed his freedom. If Barbara were alive, and if Matt’s wife had not died, Matt would no doubt have been living somewhere else, and Cahill would have had more interesting things to think about. It was just that his world had shrunk since he’d retired. Right now, Cahill was talking to a man Matt had nicknamed You Know What I Mean, a tall, perpetually windblown-looking carpenter whom Cahill had recently advised to have what he felt sure was a skin cancer removed from the side of his nose. His real name was Roadie Petruski, and, as Roadie tried to smooth down his electrified hair, Cahill listened to his beliefs concerning pressure-treated wood: “You know yourself, Doc, these things leach into the environment. Before you know it, your lungs are Swiss cheese, you know what I mean? This genetically engineered corn, the Europeans don’t want nothing to do with it. But us? We always got optimism. You probably read about rat kidneys shutting down when they was fed the stuff? I read it in one of those doctor’s-office magazines—meaning no disrespect. My advice is always to seal up pressure-treated boards with the best sealant available, and even then you don’t want to walk on it without shoes, you know what I mean?” “Whatever you think best in terms of flooring, Roadie,” Cahill said. “Not up to me! Always up to the customer!” “Well, I certainly agree with what you’ve informed me of, so let us proceed as you suggest.” “That’s the thing, Doc. That’s the direction you want to go.” In the distance, a cardinal twittered on a tree branch. If Cahill had had his binoculars, he would have raised them—he loved cardinals—but they were on the back porch. The same back porch that was going to be transformed into a heated room off the kitchen. Matt must be at home, Cahill thought: he could faintly hear Mick Jagger singing. The bird, too, must have heard the music, because it swooped away, dipping down for just a second to check out the goings on on the porch. A man he and Matt had dubbed You Got No Choice had visited a few days earlier. He’d come from town hall to inform Cahill that a wall on his property was in need of maintenance, and that, as the owner of the property on which the wall stood, surrounding a four-headstone cemetery dating back to the eighteen-hundreds, Cahill was responsible for repairs; he had no choice. There had been a lot of freezing during the winter, the man explained, and spring had been unusually wet. Such things accelerated deterioration. Cahill was told that he must keep “vegetation” six feet from the wall in all directions (he had no choice) and that no mortar could be used in rebuilding it. “I took a look just now, Doc, and from what I can tell it’s pretty much just a matter of replacing some of them coping stones along the top,” the man said, moving one hand up and down to indicate peaks and gulleys. “And—just to remind you—it’s all gotta be done by hand.” He handed Cahill a Post-it note with “URGNT fx g-yard wall 7/16” written on it in pencil, and then nodded while backing away, as though he were taking leave of the Queen of England. If Cahill hadn’t known better, he would have thought he was being made fun of. The man climbed into his truck and drove away, music blaring. Tchaikovsky’s notes bit the air like muriatic acid. Following the encounter, Cahill proceeded directly to Matt’s, where he knocked and entered to find him starting a new painting of a fruit bowl. Matt’s still-lifes were distinguished by the unconventional objects he included—plastic rhinos, a single beaded earring, a Princess Di figurine lying on its side. Cahill was gratified not to see a beer bottle on Matt’s table. The daytime drinking was new, and not a good sign. The painting class—of course it was harmless, and no doubt interesting, but did he imagine that solitary painting was a way of rejoining the world? In his opinion, Matt had got entirely too large a payment from his wife’s life-insurance company. Cahill had a millionaire living in his barn and functioning variously as his repairman, class clown, snow-removal guy, and sometime chauffeur. But he liked Matt, relied on him. The cliché would probably be that Matt was the son he never had, but then his daughter, Joyce, was enough like a son: in spite of his dire warnings, for years she’d taken steroids and lifted weights. The year her mother died, she had come East and chopped down the dead trees on his property and sawed and stacked them for firewood. She had size-11 feet encased in men’s work boots, and a tattoo on her arm of the nation’s flag, below which lurked a spiny lizard with a tongue unfurled to capture an insect. It seemed likely that Matt had a nickname for Joyce, too, but he’d had the good manners to keep quiet about it. Cahill examined Matt’s odd painting and pronounced it “coming along.” He grumbled briefly about the visit from You Got No Choice, which provoked—as Cahill knew it would—negative generalizations about the self-righteousness of New Englanders. On his way back to the house, Cahill went to inspect the graveyard. He had not noticed that the wall there was in need of repair, nor had he thought that anyone would tell him that fixing it was his responsibility. In the plot lay two children, one aged three, the other eleven months, the cuts in their stones mostly filled with moss. Their mother had died at twenty-three, the father at seventy-one—a good age to have attained. No headstone indicated another marriage. Pink and white phlox grew nearby, and sometimes—rarely, but sometimes—Cahill would cut a few stalks and put them in one of his late wife’s crystal vases to commemorate her domesticity. That afternoon, Napoleon, the neighbor’s basset hound, paid a visit and was rewarded—though Cahill knew it was wrong—with one saltine. Cahill flipped through a copy of Science News and, finally, an hour or so later, walked the basset hound to the road, picking him up for the dangerous crossing, then down four houses, where he saw that Breezy’s car was gone and the back gate unlatched. He led the dog into the back yard and firmly shut the gate. A week or so after You Got No Choice stopped by, a letter arrived from Code Enforcement informing “Property Owner Cahill” that he was in violation of an assemblage of hyphenated numbers. He was so angry that he could hardly focus on what it said. You Got No Choice had told him that he had thirty days in which to make repairs. Nevertheless, after he made a cup of tea and stopped fuming, he put on his work clothes and stalked into the yard. He took his tool kit with him, though he didn’t know why; it seemed the sort of job best done with one’s hands. He saw that his tool kit contained work gloves, so he put them on and set about replacing the rocks that had fallen. Some were missing, but where had they gone? Matt must have moved them to mow and stacked them somewhere. But he’d already interrupted Matt once that morning, so he decided to find the few rocks he needed elsewhere. He took off the gloves and dropped them back in the tool kit. As he did, a wasp came out of nowhere, like a stealth bomber, and stung him. He yanked his hand sideways in pain, wincing and squeezing his wrist. In the house, he made a paste of baking soda and water in a teacup and smeared it on, then swallowed an antihistamine, just in case. When the Benadryl kicked in, he went upstairs to lie down, and he was surprised when he woke up hours later. He went into the bathroom and undressed, turned on the shower, and stepped in, grasping the shower bar. What would his wife have said of this latest mishap? That he had somehow invited the wasp? Barbara had had many good qualities, but charity toward him when he was hurt was not among them. He thought that perhaps it had frightened her, to know that he was human. She had said many times, only half-jokingly, that she’d married a man she thought could take good care of her. He dried off with his favorite towel, threw it over the shower door, and went downstairs, where he made another cup of tea. His wrist was tender but no longer painful. Napoleon was standing silently at the porch door. The dog was going to be killed crossing Route 91. Didn’t Breezy care? He opened the door, and the basset hound bounded in, something clamped in his teeth. It was a dead chipmunk. Napoleon dropped it, with its bitten bloody neck, at Cahill’s feet and looked up expectantly. “Maybe the doctor could work it in around five o’clock,” Cahill said, staring down at the creature. “But the doctor is a very busy man, you know.” The dog knew none of these words. Cahill relented. “Good boy,” he said to the dog, who wagged his tail furiously and nosed the chipmunk, then looked up for further approval. This would have set his wife screaming. Cahill patted the dog’s head, keeping it from the dead thing, then picked the chipmunk up by its tail and dropped it in the trash. This meant that he would have to take the trash out immediately, but no matter. He washed his hands. All those years of careful washing, using the brush, scrubbing under nonexistent fingernails—oh, his precious hands. Now a minuscule rim of fingernail protruded on a few of his fingers, and this brought him a certain sense of pride. He’d never tell anyone anything so ridiculous, but there it was: he liked having fingernails. “We are two very impressive gentlemen, aren’t we?” he said to the dog. The interrogative always made the dog’s tail wag frantically. “But maybe it’s time to be getting home—what do you say?” He looked at the list of phone numbers taped to his refrigerator, then welled up with sudden anger: he’d call Breezy, and she could walk over and get her dog this time. Enough of the escort service. He dialled her number. Above the phone was hung a copy of an etching he had always loved, and had kept above his desk in the private part of his office: “Abraham’s Sacrifice,” by Michelangelo, the angel’s hands so exquisitely, so lightly placed. “Breezy?” he said, when he heard her voice. “I’ve got Napoleon over here and I think it’s time for him to come home, if you’d be so kind.” “I am so sorry. Did he run away again?” Breezy asked. “Ever since I started taking classes up in Orono, there’s no keeping him in the yard. But the other thing is, he just loves you. It’s hard to keep him behind the fence.” “I noticed that. He’s going to be hit by a car, Breezy, and you’re never going to forgive yourself. You’ve got to do something about that gate latch.” He looked at the dog, sniffing the trash can. It was too tall for him to get his snout in. “Absolutely,” she said. “I’m going to speak to Ed at the hardware store about how to fix the latch. Tomorrow.” “They’re open till nine tonight,” he said. “Morty, you do not hint subtly!” she exclaimed. “I’m overwhelmed tonight, if you must know, with Father having misplaced his glasses and his teeth, and he’s got a terrible cold, so he’s in a foul mood. The practical nurse didn’t show up today, either.” “A lot of part-timers in that profession,” he said. “Doesn’t make for reliability.” “Well, Morty, that may be true, but what alternative do I have? If dear Barbara were still alive, I could at least get a hug.” Breezy had been his wife’s best friend. She had received endless sympathy from Barbara—especially concerning her father’s move into her house. Breezy was one of the reasons that Barbara had wanted to spend what turned out to be the last winter of her life in Maine. After they hung up, Breezy did not appear for so long that he suspected she might not be coming at all. The dog lay curled next to him in the living room, as Cahill read a book called “How Buildings Learn,” his feet stretched out on the footstool. Finally, she arrived. “Morty, I hope I didn’t cause you pain by mentioning Barbara,” she blurted, instead of saying hello. The dog rose and shook himself, ambling toward her. She bent and stroked his side. “You ran away again,” she said. “Did Napoleon run away again?” “Exile to Elba next time,” Cahill said. “I’ve been to the hardware store. Ed was off tonight, but I left a note saying I came in and that it was an emergency. We are going to solve this problem, aren’t we?” she said in baby talk to the dog. Then she turned to Cahill. “Morty, I feel sometimes that when I say something you aren’t . . . I don’t know . . . that you don’t approve of what I’m saying. I don’t want a gold star for going to the hardware store, but I did go there as you suggested.” “I’m afraid the dog is going to be hit by a car, Breezy,” he said, with the firm sympathy of a doctor giving a bad diagnosis. He heard his voice pitched a bit too low, and softened. “Just a long day,” he said, standing. Breezy—she’d got her nickname because she loved to talk—was clearly hoping to be asked to stay for a cup of tea. But it had been a bad day—the officious letter, the wasp—and he realized that he’d had nothing to eat since breakfast. He patted Breezy’s shoulder as if she were a patient he was steering gently out the door. At the front stoop, she turned to face him and said, “I know you miss her very much, Morty. I do, too, every day of my life,” and then she was gone, down the steps, curving with the path into the night, Napoleon—so named because the dog did not like to chew on bones, though he liked to tear the bones apart (the sole original thing he’d ever known Breezy’s father to come up with)—trotting along on his leash without a backward glance. Cahill went into the kitchen and took a potpie from the freezer, placed it on a cookie sheet, and set the oven for four-fifty. Though the oven had not reached the correct temperature, he put his dinner in anyway. Then came another knock at the front door: most certainly Breezy, back for some reason. Cahill went to the door and opened it. A young woman was standing there. “Dr. Cahill?” she said. “Excuse me for knocking so late. I’m Audrey Comstock. I live in Portsmouth.” “Yes?” he said. “May I come in? I’m a friend of Matt’s.” “Enter,” he said, gesturing toward the living room. She walked in and looked around. She did not sit, nor did he motion toward a chair. Patients were that way: some would remain standing forever if you did not formally offer them a seat. “What can I do for you?” he said. “Get him to marry me,” she said. “Excuse me?” “He doesn’t think he can leave here. You,” she amended. “Leave you.” “I know nothing about this,” he said. “We’ve been seeing each other for more than a year. We met at a painting group in Portsmouth. At Christmas, he all but proposed.” “Oh?” he said. At Christmas, Matt had prepared a goose and cooked parsnips from the root cellar. They had eaten the meal with some Stonewall Kitchen condiment—a sort of jelly with garlic. Was he to believe that all that time Matt had been in love but had never mentioned the person’s name? Of course, anything was possible. A patient having a physical would say that nothing was bothering him, and only when he’d taken off his shirt would Cahill see that he was broken out in shingles, or had cut himself badly and wasn’t properly healing. “I’m not sure why you’re here,” he said. She was an unpleasant-looking woman—in her early twenties, he thought. Her beak of a nose, crammed too tightly between her small eyes, made it difficult to look at her with a neutral expression. She said, “I wanted to tell you that you wouldn’t be losing a son; you’d be gaining a daughter.” “My child is grown and gone,” he said. “I am looking for neither.” She looked at him blankly for a moment. “He doesn’t feel like he can leave,” she said again. “I assure you he can,” Cahill said. “We have our art work in common,” she said, as if he’d asked for further explanation. He looked at her. “Matt and me,” she said finally. “This matter is entirely between you and Matt,” he said. “You don’t have to persuade me of anything.” “He respects you. You’re like a father figure to him. It’s just that he doesn’t think he can leave you.” “You’ve said that many times,” Cahill said. “I’ve explained that he can leave.” “He loves me,” she said. “He said he’d take care of me.” “Well,” he said, “perhaps you can work things out. When people are meant to be together, such things have been known to happen.” “You’re trying to get rid of me,” she said in a trembling voice. “You don’t think I’m good enough.” “Please do me the favor of not attempting to read my mind,” he said. “I was about to eat a late dinner when you knocked, and now it’s time to do that, if you’ll excuse me.” She stamped her foot. The woman was ridiculous; he would have to get a peephole and not let such people in. “Can I see?” she said plaintively. Cahill stared at her. “See what?” he said. “Just once, can I find out if somebody’s trying to get rid of me or if you’re really eating dinner?” He almost expressed his surprise, but checked his reaction. He levelled his eyes on her, wondering whether she wasn’t shamed by her own childishness. Of course, such people rarely were. “By all means,” he said. “The kitchen door is right there.” Surely she would not really go in, but no—of course she would. Like an obese patient advised to diet who would proceed immediately to the nearest vending machine for a candy bar. There she went, to view his potpie. She would be seeing that, and the landslide of mostly unread newspapers that needed to be thrown out, a few days’ worth of dirty dishes in the sink. He had not yet carried out the trash, so perhaps even the dead chipmunk had begun to smell. “That’s all you’re eating?” she said, returning to the room. In a gentler tone of voice, she said, “I could cook for you. Make extra when I cook for Matt and me.” “I assume Matt doesn’t know you’re here?” he said. She shrugged. “I can’t find him,” she said. “I thought maybe he was here.” He gestured toward the front door. “When you find him, you can discuss with him these generous impulses,” he said. “I wish you good night.” She started to say something. He could almost sense the second when she decided against it and turned to leave. He followed her out the door and stood on the stoop. No lights were on in the barn. The stars shone brightly, and there was a faint, wind-chime-tinged breeze. Breezy’s house was the only one he could see that was lit. Matt’s car was not in the driveway. Audrey waved sadly, overacting, the poor child cast out into the night. He did not return the wave. Damn the woman! There was nothing he liked less than getting caught up in other people’s soap operas. He wrote a quick note on the pad by the phone and walked over to stick it to Matt’s front door. “Met your friend Audrey,” the note said. “Stop by when you get back.” The next morning, when he answered his front door he saw not Matt but Deirdre Rambell, who worked as a secretary at town hall and had heard about what she called, with hushed sincerity, the situation. “Deirdre, it’s a few rocks that I’ve already put back,” he said. “The town is making a mountain out of a molehill.” “Oh, it’s the Historical Society, you know. The volunteers go around checking, and they really care. For my own part, I’ve always felt the dead have souls that cannot be at peace when they sense any lack of respect.” “Souls sense respect?” he said. He realized with slight embarrassment that although he was wearing chinos, he still had on his pajama top. “Indeed they do,” she said. “Then let me inform you, Deirdre, that at this point I have replaced all but a couple of the six or seven stones necessary to give the souls their deserved respect. Let me also ask you this: Do you happen to really know or care anything about the people buried on this property? About their lives, I mean—as people, rather than as souls?” Nothing in his tone registered with her. “Aren’t they Moultons?” she said. “Fine people, among the first settlers.” “Onward!” she exclaimed when she finally drove away. Yes, he thought, that sort of woman always feels that she’s making progress. You Got No Choice appeared next, apologizing for what he called the “slipup” at town hall. “That lamebrained letter was embarrassing,” he said, rolling his eyes. “I just found out, Doc, and came right over to apologize.” “You, and the rest of the town, will be relieved to know that, as infirm as I am, the wall has been repaired, and now all is well with the world.” “Excellent, Doc!” He tugged the brim of his cap. “You wouldn’t have seen Matt’s van anywhere around town, would you?” Cahill said. “I haven’t seen him in a while.” “Are you kidding?” You Got No Choice said. “Kidding?” “You don’t know?” “Know what?” Cahill said. “Up in Warren,” he said warily, as if Cahill might be having him on. “It’s been all over the papers.” You Got No Choice saw the answer in Cahill’s expression. “Doc—they got him on some molesting-a-minor thing, or something. I didn’t want to bring up a sore subject. I know he was like a son to you. You get rounded up by the cops, you got no choice—you go where the Man says you go, right? Don’t mean you’re guilty.” Cahill put his hand out to brace himself on the doorframe. His mind was racing, but it moved neither backward nor forward. It raced like a car on a lift, with someone inside gunning the engine. “Sorry to drop a bomb on you. Articles have been in the paper every day, as far’s I know.” “It’s impossible,” Cahill said, having recovered enough to speak, though he could hardly hear his own voice. “Say what?” “Why wouldn’t he have called me? Why wouldn’t police have come to the barn, why—” “There you go,” You Got No Choice said. “Fishy, huh? You got a point; it’s odd if they haven’t made no search.” Cahill almost tripped on the rug in the entryway on his way back into the house. He walked toward the kitchen and the pile of papers, which he wanted to look through immediately, and not at all. “Real life,” as his wife would have said. He sank into a kitchen chair and brushed the newspapers onto the floor, putting his head in his hands. The phone rang, and he got up and walked numbly toward it. Matt? Calling to say what? “This is Joyce,” his daughter said. “Joyce, my dear, this is not a time I can talk,” he said, but another voice intruded. “And this is Tara,” a younger, more high-pitched voice sing-alonged, and he realized he’d been talking to a recording. He heard chimes, and the first unmistakable notes of the wedding march. His daughter’s voice said, “We’re sending this recording on the happiest day of our lives to announce that at one o’ clock July 20, 2005, we were joined together in a commitment ceremony, blessed by Mother Goddess Devi, and we are now officially Joyce”—the squeaky voice broke in—“and Tara.” “Forever!” the voices shouted in unison. Next, he recognized the familiar strident voice of his daughter: “Don’t be put out that you weren’t invited,” she said. “Our ceremony consisted of only Mother Devi, Tara’s brother who lives next door—who did a bee-yoo-tee-ful Sufi dance—and our little girl Fluffy Sunshine, with a collar of bells and white pansies.” Tara broke in: “When you get this message, we’ll be in the air to Hawaii.” “Peace and love to you, and may you recognize the happiness we have experienced today,” his daughter said. Bells clanged merrily; over their ringing, he heard them giggling, voices overlapping: “Inshallah. G-g-g-goodbye, folks!” He put his head in his hands again, pushing his fingertips against his eyelids until he felt pain. He went to the barn in the dark, shining the flashlight in front of him. It had rained, and tiny frogs leaped across the dirt road like tiddlywinks. In front of him grew the rhododendrons that Matt had been so delighted to have found in some nursery’s compost heap: two of them, with electric-lavender flowers, grown large beside the door. The ink on Cahill’s Post-it note had run into one black smear. He knocked, though it was obvious that the place was deserted. He had read enough in the paper to make him sick. An oversized T-shirt was draped over an oak ladder-back chair. Matt had glued the chair’s leg for him some months back, and somehow it had remained in the barn. On the kitchen table were a few shiny copper pennies, and a “Little Mermaid” key ring. Cahill felt revulsion. He was also afraid that the police might zoom in on the barn and find him there, snooping. He understood sadly and too late about the toys that Matt had taken pride in rescuing from the dump. They were to lure children, of course. The tag-sale Barbies on the bathroom shelf, stripped of clothes and bracketing the can of shaving cream, the bathroom glass, and the electric razor that Cahill had given Matt for his birthday—he saw the dolls as the bait they were. How could he have been so obtuse? He sat in his old chair and surveyed the room. It resonated with silence. This had once been his wife’s dance studio, the place where she practiced—only for the love of it; she’d been too old to seriously dance ballet. This had been her private place, where she watched tapes of Nureyev dancing and no doubt imagined herself being lifted high by his strong hands; where she wore tights and one of Cahill’s old white shirts long beyond the time when she would have appeared coquettish in such attire. But now he had to accept the fact that the barn had been desecrated, inhabited for years by a person he’d misjudged, toward whom his wife would have felt the greatest contempt. A slight smell of sweat hung in the air—at least, the kitchen had that odor. He got up and opened the refrigerator—not expecting a Jeffrey Dahmer banquet but checking nonetheless. A bottle of cheap champagne lay on its side, and a couple of packs of moldy cheese, unsealed. Yellow celery lay in a brownish puddle in the drawer. The opened cans he didn’t peer into. He took out the one can of Coke, pulled back the top, and drank it, hoping it would settle his stomach. It was not exactly reassuring that the police hadn’t come. Hadn’t they made Matt tell them where he lived? He saw an old calendar held with a magnet to the side of the refrigerator: Shirley Temple as a child, sniffing a yellow daisy. Oh, the banality of it. The sad predictability of people’s intense yet ultimately unoriginal desires. “You’re so superior?” his wife used to chide. Well, yes, he was. At least to some. He took another sip and put the can aside. Well: there were no lollipops. No pictures of little girls naked on the computer, because Matt did not own a computer. A back-to-basics child molester. It might be, Cahill thought, that the space itself was cursed. There was the time, during its reconstruction, when the carpenter—a strong-bodied, red-haired woman named Elsie—had flirted with him, the strap of her sweaty tank top fallen from one shoulder, and he had questioned her with his eyes, and she had answered in the affirmative. He had moved toward her and gently slipped down the other strap, intending only a kiss to such peach-perfect breasts, when, with the timing of a bad movie, Deirdre Rambell had walked into the barn, carrying the sandwiches and drinks his wife had sent out on a tray. It was funny now—or, if not funny, he still took pleasure in having shocked Deirdre, that holier-than-thou woman. There had been no chance in the world that she would ever report what she’d seen to Barbara. He could still hear the glasses rattling on the tray. He called the police from Matt’s phone—a rotary dial, another of Matt’s Salvation Army finds. That was what Cahill thought Matt had been doing: going here and there, collecting trivia as a way of getting over his wife’s death. The policeman who answered on the eighth ring—eighth!—seemed none too interested in what he was saying until he raised his voice. “That child molester you’ve got up there in Warren,” he said. “You might want to come over to his house and check through it. This is his landlord calling.” Already, he had retreated from the notion of friendship. “I can’t understand why you haven’t been here before now,” he added. The Coke rose up his throat, the acid rush subsiding sickly. He looked at a pencil sketch of trees in an open sketchbook on the counter. A rather lovely little depiction. Well, he thought, nobody does what they do all the time. Another person came on the phone and took down his name and address. When the police appeared, about fifteen minutes later—local police first—he found out three things: that Matt had given an address in Syracuse, though he claimed he’d been living out of his van; and that there was an address in Syracuse—the address of his second wife, who was not dead at all. The third thing he found out, but not until they were leaving, was that Matt had got into an altercation with a man in the holding cell and had been stabbed with a homemade shiv. A few weeks later, Cahill received a note from You Got No Choice, whom he now resolved to think of, more charitably, as Bill: “My boss is breathing down my neck and even though these are rough times and you have my heartfelt condolences, Doc, the wall around the grave still hasn’t been fixed to come up to code. I’d be glad to drop by this weekend and have at it with some stone.” It was nice of Bill to offer to pitch in, but the letter only strengthened Cahill’s resolve to fix the wall himself. Which he set out to do, after eating a grilled-cheese sandwich for lunch. Protein and carbohydrates were good together, midday. Bad eating had contributed to his wife’s untimely death; she’d been diabetic and sometimes wouldn’t eat anything for an entire day, calling him a nag. She “felt sick,” yes, but it was a vicious circle: feel sick, don’t eat; don’t eat, feel sick. He walked to the side of the house where the soil was mixed with chips of old brick and rocks. Nothing much would grow in the shady area, but it was a good place to harvest rocks. He piled them into a discarded one-gallon plastic flowerpot. After some digging, he had what he hoped was enough, and set off with the pot pressed to his ribs, his other hand grasping the handle of his toolbox. Hi ho, hi ho. He wondered if Matt would expect him to get in touch. Hear his side of things. Offer help—if not as a doctor, then as a friend? Whatever Matt expected, Cahill could not bring himself to make an attempt to contact him—at least, not at this point in time. The barn wasn’t roped off, though he supposed it wasn’t really a crime scene. So many men had come in unmarked cars lately: anybody could have been rummaging around inside, after a while. What was he supposed to do, run out every time he saw another car and ask to see identification? Cahill turned to see Napoleon bounding across the lawn, foolish ears flapping like luffing sails. The dog tipped sideways as he came close, rudderless with friendliness. “Come to see the old man?” he said. In answer, Napoleon snapped at a bug. “Cross the busy road for the billionth time, tempting fate?” He rubbed the dog beneath his ears. “Let’s let her come after you if and when she gets lonely, yeah,” Cahill said, continuing to scratch. While he stacked rocks, he kept an eye on the dog, who was nosing at the edge of the woods. The wall repair took longer than he’d anticipated, and he had to get the shovel and dig up one quite large stone from beside the porch, but finally he stood back and admired his handiwork. “There you go, Bill, my friend,” he said aloud, saluting the air. “Your job done, my job done.” He cleaned some fallen leaves and bits of stick out of the area, stepping carefully around the wall. What had they died of, these four? In those days, people could die from an infected tooth. Dying young was to be expected: young, then, had another meaning. By the time his daughter had graduated from high school, he hadn’t loved her or his wife for some time. His fingertips scratching beneath Napoleon’s ears now communicated more sincerity than all the kisses he’d planted formally on the cheeks of his wife and daughter. His wife knew that he’d done things automatically, without feeling. “Reading your rhymes like they make order of things,” she’d sneered, as, in her last days, he sat beside her bed reading poems by Yeats, or D. H. Lawrence, poems that rarely rhymed. It was clear where his daughter got her mocking ability. She’d pattern-stepped into bitterness, too. She’d complained about being named for a man (James Joyce), especially for a man whose own daughter had ended up a madwoman. But what ultra-feminine name had she wished they’d given her, what other rose would have gone better with her scuffed work boots and her black-framed glasses? He had no wand of malice; age alone had turned his wife into a failed ballerina, while genetic signals had resulted in her diabetes. He had determined nothing about his daughter’s future by naming her Joyce; it was her own doing that made her what she was. He’d provided well for them, even after he’d stopped loving them. You could will yourself to stop (as he’d done upon hearing the revelations about Matt), or you could stop slowly, point the blades of your skates inward, so to speak, so that coming to a halt was done gracefully, sometimes unnoticed by you or by others. He thought of some lines from Byron: . . . I seek no sympathies, nor need; The thorns which I have reap’d are of the tree I planted: they have torn me, and I bleed: I should have known what fruit would spring from such a seed. There it was! The thorns and bloodshed were a bit of a cliché, but look at the poet’s real passion. To know something about oneself—that was what caused that pleasurable ache which put one in another state entirely. Too much time was lost trying to figure out other people. There had been nights in recent years when he had sat awake, a tumbler in his hand filled with chilly Perrier (as a young man, he would have had a glass of brandy), reading to Matt. What did it mean that someone who appreciated poetry also appreciated, sexually, children? Oh, he supposed he knew that humans were “complicated,” that they clung to exteriors, that they instinctively turned away from the illustrations in “Gray’s Anatomy,” which offered factual information about their inner selves; why did people have no interest in the real coherence of their inner workings, the rhythms of the muscles, the—all right—poetry of the vascular system? He knew that these were the thoughts of a peculiar old man, marginalized and dismissed for years, acerbically pronounced upon by his daughter. Guileless children told the truth? They did, but not so well as poets. On his way back to the house, he picked up the day’s mail. He found in the pile a newsletter from the A.A.R.P., a packet of coupons, a letter from a local charity, and—he almost dropped the flyer—a grainy photocopied picture: “MISSING PERSON,” it read, and gave her age as sixteen. Last seen in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. He remembered Audrey standing at his door. But could this be the same girl, if she was only sixteen? He held the page farther away, squinting. Audrey’s eyes followed him as if he held a hologram. He wandered into the living room, debating whether to call the police yet again. Audrey’s having been a friend of Matt’s, her visit . . . all of it would be of interest to them. It was his obligation to call—he really should—but for the moment he thought that, actually, no one had done much for him lately, except to hassle him about rebuilding a pointless wall around a graveyard. It also occurred to him that he did not want to be the one to put another nail in Matt’s coffin, so to speak: Matt’s friendship with the disturbed teen-age girl could not possibly help his cause, whatever had or had not gone on between the two of them. Cahill decided that he could use a shower and a nap. This many years after her death, he was still using his wife’s Dove soap. Yellowed packages of it were stacked here and there, even in cannisters in the pantry. You discovered people’s secret stashes when they died. The little, unknown things filled them in, as if they hadn’t had quite enough dimension in life. Or perhaps those discoveries took them farther away, dried-out cigarettes and hidden half-pints reminding you that everyone was little known. He turned on the fan and curled onto the bed, and when he awoke it was evening, and he was in a cold sweat. Sounds he’d been making had awoken him, and he struggled up so suddenly from a dream that he knocked his arm against the light. It was a dream, it had been a dream, but it had been so shockingly real. He went into the bathroom and splashed water on his face, but the water only intensified his already palpable dread. He all but ran down the stairs and across the lawn to the graveyard. He had dreamed that Audrey was buried there. Just hours earlier he’d seen that the ground was undisturbed, yet he had gone to sleep and smelled the newly dug soil, felt its graininess beneath his fingernails, stared wide-eyed at the fallen gravestones. His horrific vision—the only one he’d ever had—turned out to have some validity, though it was wrong in the specifics. There was no sign of digging, but there were scratch marks in the soil, and the smallest of the gravestones was leaning toward the ground. But no: the ground had not been dug in. In the center of the plot—he could not stop a wry smile: dead center—was a pile of dog shit, immense in size. A mound of it. Napoleon! Some of Cahill’s earlier handiwork had been toppled yet again, and he realized with embarrassment that his efforts had been slapdash. He went back to the house and found Roadie standing in the hallway inside the screen door, holding his cap in one hand and a clipboard in the other. “Roadie,” Cahill said. “Yes, sir,” Roadie said, replacing his cap on his head. It said “SHERYL CROW.” Cahill blurted, “Neighbor’s dog just took a huge crap in my back yard. Really annoying.” “Dog’s gotta do what a dog’s gotta do,” Roadie said. “Right,” he said. Roadie cleared his voice. “Doc, I’ve talked to two people I respect, who’ve advised two different approaches to your porch situation. One thinks sliding thermal doors, and, for my personal opinion, it’s more money but that’s what I’d be inclined to go with.” “Then that sounds fine with me, Roadie,” Cahill said. “Approach No. 2, Doc, for full disclosure, this comes from Hank, down at Elbriddle’s. He thinks . . .” He let Roadie drone on. As a younger man, he might have studied the figures longer, asked more questions, but if it was Roadie’s opinion that the first option was the best, he was inclined to go along. “Awful about your friend,” Roadie said suddenly, with no segue. “My wife said, ‘Don’t you be bringing that up, it’s none of your business, and how do you think the doctor feels? Don’t tell me that no-good didn’t hoodwink him, because the doctor wouldn’t have a tenant but what he thought he was an honorable man—’ ” Roadie stopped, seeing that Cahill was numbed by this sudden outpouring. Roadie cleared his throat again—a nervous habit. He said, “Men like that ain’t much liked by other men. Way I’ve always heard it, you’d get more sympathy from the jailbirds if you killed your mother than if you’ve fooled with a child. I’ve got Hannahlee and Junior, as you know. Any pervert touched a hair on their head, I’d be on ’em in one second flat. How do you suppose a guy like that seemed so regular?” Silence. Finally, Cahill spoke. “Roadie,” he said, “do you think I should undertake such a project at all, given my age? Do you think I’ll last the winter to enjoy it?” Roadie’s tongue darted over his lips. “Well, Doc, you’d know the answer better than me. You in bad health?” “No,” Cahill said. “Well, I ain’t here to build if you think your money should best be used elsewhere, but a closed-in porch with a real one down at the end? That’s something I’d spring for if I had the money.” For Roadie, this was tactful—turning the subject from death to money. Roadie made a fist and pounded a black ant racing across the table. “Something my wife said, she said, ‘Roadie, you go over there and express some human kindness to the doctor. That’s a man’s done a lot for a lot of people, and, if he had a moment of misjudgment, you tell me who hasn’t.’ She says, ‘Come to think of it, I guess time’s proven me a fool for marrying somebody like you, needs this much instruction before he goes to see somebody who lost his wife and his friend!’ ” “She thinks herself a fool for marrying you?” Cahill said. “You met Gloria Sue. Turns out she married me thinking I was going to build the Taj Mahal, or something. Where’d she get that? Nothing I ever told her.” “Do you love her?” Cahill said. Roadie looked up, surprised. “Well, I don’t know,” he said slowly. “I stopped loving my wife,” Cahill said. “First, I thought I was just overloaded with all her minor annoyances—snoring, refusing to take her diabetes medicine, the way she ignored the phone every time it rang. Half the time it turned out to be her sister.” Roadie looked sideways, kicking some grass off his boot. “That right?” he said. He took a deep breath. “Well, these plans here, Doc—you want to give me a deposit, I’ll run down and get some things Monday morning?” “No,” Cahill said. He waited for Roadie’s face to register surprise, which it did immediately. “But I will,” he said, “because it seems like closing in the porch is betting against death. Today I feel like that would be a good idea.” “You do?” Roadie said nervously. Cahill clasped his hands. “Roadie,” he said, “how often do men speak frankly? I think some of the things we’ve just been talking about . . . We’ve spoken frankly to each other.” Roadie nodded silently. “One more thing,” Cahill said. “I’ve never been a mystical person, but things change as you age. You’ll find that out. Some things—people, even—disappear, then something else comes in to replace them.” Cahill paused. “Life is like having a garden, Roadie, because inevitably the time comes when the deer eat everything, or you don’t mulch and the soil gets exhausted. Right away, the weeds are in there. So I suppose what I’m getting at is that, well, tending your garden seems to me now like a young man’s game. When you don’t have the inclination or the energy or the . . . optimism to tend it anymore, the weeds rush in.” He looked Roadie square in the eyes. He barely knew what he had said himself. He said, “The moment you stop loving something, the moment you’re inattentive, the wrong things and the wrong people take over.” “That’s one of the best ways of puttin’ it I ever heard,” Roadie said. “I’ll go back to talk to Gloria Sue, try to tell her what we discussed. There’s no way I’m gonna be able to put it like you did, though.” “Express it in your own way,” Cahill said. “It seems to me you love her if you’re going home to talk to her.” He went to the beach, a place he’d gone only once or twice, quite early in the season, and unfolded a chair and looked at the water. He’d never called the police in response to the flyer. He’d never spoken a word to Breezy about what the dog had done in the graveyard. He tried to think philosophically: Audrey and Matt had been involved in whatever way they’d chosen—two losers, in any case, who were no good for each other; the dog was just a dog. People projected onto dogs, so they found themselves surprised when dogs acted like dogs instead of people. What did not change? Change was part of the natural process. Coming to terms with what Matt had done, though, was difficult. It wasn’t a matter of Matt’s having been like his son, as Audrey had suggested, but, rather, that Matt seemed at times like a source of . . . what? Guidance? Ironic, thinking of what Matt might have guided him toward. But of course parents didn’t tell their secrets to their children, just as the children withheld theirs from their parents. “I didn’t do it! I didn’t do it!” little Joyce had cried, hand stained red, lipsticked “J”s all over the bathroom mirror, the bath tiles, even the toilet lid. “You never really got involved,” his wife had said, when she was still able to discuss his shortcomings. “If you don’t get involved, you don’t have to take responsibility. That was the way you always operated as a parent. As if you were the éminence grise, as if your family was just too much pressure. The aloof doctor.” The sadness of family life. The erosion of love until only a little rim was left, and that, too, eventually crumbled. Rationalization: he had been no worse a father than many. No worse than a mediocre husband. That old saying about not being able to pick your family until you married and had your own . . . People rarely remarked upon the fact that time passed, and you kept picking friends who were closer to you than family members; dogs you’d come to prefer to people. The next “family” in the line of succession could be a goldfish in a bowl, he supposed. In front of him, a little boy in a wetsuit played with a fishing rod that dangled no lure, casting it all wrong, the way he’d learned to throw a softball. His mother and father sat on a blanket, their attention focussed on each other. As the sky turned that indescribable silvery tone it often attained in late summer in Maine, Cahill rubbed his face and was surprised that his skin was still hot from the sun. A real Mainer would have worn his baseball cap. He slid a bit lower in his chair, and some time later was startled awake by squawking gulls. The charcoal-gray sky was flatlining a thin horizontal line of pale pink; the breeze had a bite to it. The couple and their child had gone, a bucket with a broken handle and a pile of shells left behind. He stood and folded the chair, scooping up his shoes with his other hand. He drove home, appreciating what a pretty town this was, how the residents kept their houses in such good repair. Back home, he stashed the chair in the garage, where the garter snake who’d lived there contentedly for years slithered away behind piles of tied-up newspapers. His wife’s plastic planters dangled from a beam, the few dried stems that remained deteriorating into dust. As he started up the walkway, he saw something suddenly dart past a bush at the side of the house, startling him so that he teetered for balance on the edge of the bricks. It was Napoleon, panting, big ears flapping. “You listen here,” he said to the dog, grabbing his collar. “You desecrated a graveyard, you—” He stopped, automatically rephrasing, in case he might not be understood. “You shit in the graveyard and knocked down the new wall!” he yelled. “You come with me.” He was dragging the dog across the lawn, though the animal dug down, clawing as if to score music, trying to stop the forward rush. The dog yelped as Cahill dragged him all the way to the wall, which was now even more caved in, though thankfully there was no more shit inside the enclosure. “Bad dog! Bad dog!” he said, jerking the collar. The dog risked further pain to turn his neck to look up at him, and what Cahill saw was fear. Fear and incomprehension. The sad squeaky sound went infinitely sharp, and Cahill realized he’d been intending to push the dog’s nose against a pile of shit that was not his. It had been left by a much larger animal. Of course it had. Look at the size of the dog, and look at the pile of shit. Instantly, he loosened his hold on the collar but stopped short of releasing it entirely, because of course the dog—any sane creature—would immediately run away. “I’m sorry,” he said, bending and putting his lips close to the dog’s head, the smell of grass and dog mixed with a hint of . . . could it be lavender? “I’m sorry,” he said staunchly, as if someone might overhear. Then, leaning in even closer, he risked letting go of the collar, whispering, “I misunderstood.” 
Club Des Amis Wu’s story was simple: he’d come to West Africa from Shanghai in search of a better life. Throughout the nineteen-nineties, a number of Chinese herbalists had established themselves in the major and minor cities of Ivory Coast; Wu’s cousin was one of these, and he’d urged Wu to join him. Wu chose Séguéla, a dusty Muslim town in the north of the country, and spent his first few months there taking lessons in the rudiments of West African French and shelling out piles of his cousin’s CFA francs to entertain the city’s functionaries in the bars. Then he hung his shingle in the marketplace, and the patients began to come. Mostly they were soldiers and teachers who had contracted venereal diseases from the local prostitutes. They knew that word would get out if they went to the town’s hospital, so instead they went to Wu and he cured them with acupuncture and erythromycin. Even the city’s two Ivorian doctors came in now and again with embarrassing rashes. On weekends, Wu rode his mobylette into the surrounding villages to treat the chiefs and their sons for these same maladies, at prorated village prices. His practice thrived, and soon enough he was able to send for his wife and son in China. Before I met Wu, I had already spotted his wife; I always enjoyed the sight of her, a petite Chinese woman in a tight pink wrap mincing about the crowded Séguéla market on clogs that elevated her above the fish heads and the mud, a pink parasol open over her head like a flower. Wherever she went, she was followed by a long train of market children singing “Chinese woman! Chinese woman!” and by mangy homeless dogs, who were attracted, perhaps, by her strange scent. I was glad to see her not only because her presence in that obscure place gave me a pleasant shock but because she was even more alien there than I was. Whenever we crossed paths, the children who’d been following me shouting “White man! White man!” would abandon me to join her entourage. I understood that her life in Africa must have been hell. “Peiching hated it here,” Wu told me one night. We were at his house drinking warm beer, playing poker for the shrimp tails left over from our dinner. By that time, Wu was alone, his house big and empty around him. “Everywhere she went, the children followed. In the market, the women always wanted to touch her skin. I hired a tutor to teach her French, but she never picked it up. Not one word. Her heart was in China. When Wen died, she was ruined. A few months later, she went home.” It was a rainy night, and, for a change, Séguéla was quiet. Wu showed me pictures of his wedding. When he and Peiching had got married, they were both poor students, and the best honeymoon Wu had been able to afford was a trip to Beijing, where they stayed with his relatives. One picture showed them in a garden outside the Imperial Palace. The colors of the flowers had faded, like the rest of the picture, to sepia. Wu looked thin and young, with a cigarette between his fingers, and his wife looked shy. They were both wearing jeans, and neither was smiling, but something in their rigid postures suggested the significance of the moment. Everyone in China had advised Wu against bringing his son to Africa. Africa was full of danger and disease; there were too many risks for a family’s only child. But Wen and his father were close, and the boy decided to postpone university to be with his dad. Wu showed me a picture of his son, too. Wen had been a tall boy, pale and serious-looking, his face neat and narrow like his mother’s, handsome. He was standing in front of a jade lion in a snowy square somewhere in Xian. He wore a heavy wool coat, military issue, and snowflakes rested on his shoulders like petals. As Wu showed me the picture under the naked bulb of his room, he said, in a soft voice, “I took him here to Xian for his graduation. To sightsee. To celebrate. One child in China. One son. Can you imagine? In a world of rain, one single drop belongs to you.” Africa was difficult for Peiching, but Wen took to it as though he’d been waiting his whole life for the release. He was just eighteen when he came, and for whatever reason the Africans took him in as though they’d been waiting for him as well. He played basketball with the soldiers’ sons every evening at the stadium court. He borrowed his father’s mobylette and disappeared into the bush for days with friends. He ate fried plantain chips sold by the street venders, put away his leather shoes and wore foam flip-flops that he bought in the market. He went swimming in the distant Marahoué River, and worked in the rice fields with people he barely knew. In three months, he was speaking Worodougou as if he’d been born to it. Every warning his father gave him—about intestinal parasites, about bilharzia and melanoma, about AIDS and the local girls—he laughed off. Six months after he’d stepped off the bus in Séguéla on a dusty Sunday with his mother nervous beside him, Wen had a local girlfriend, and two months after that he told his father that the girl was pregnant. For the only time in his life, Wu struck his son. Who knows why? Maybe it was the stress of worrying about the boy, or the mounting difficulties of his own psychic isolation in a foreign land; maybe it was his frustration with the corrupt Ivorian government, which was forever presenting new documents he had to buy, new taxes he had to pay. Maybe it was all of these. Whatever the reason, Wu slapped his son again and again. They were out on the porch, which opened onto the market. It was the first hard rain of the season, and people stood under the tin roofing of every stall, calling to their friends and laughing as they watched this exchange between the Chinese men. Wu said, “What sort of life will a half-black have in China?” Wen shouted, “I live here now! I’m never going back to China!” Wu tried to grab his son’s arm, but Wen shook free and ran off. For three months, there was no word from him. Then, halfway through the fourth, a messenger came from the girl’s village, thirty miles to the east, beyond Mankono, where the couple had fled. The messenger was a poor man in village rags. He wasn’t able to bring his eyes up to meet Wu’s as he broke the news he’d carried with him: Wen was dead. I looked at the photo of the tall and serious boy with snowflakes on his shoulders, and asked, “What in the world happened to him?” “It’s Africa. Who knows what happened? Here we sleep under nets. There he was living in a hut. He wasn’t on any medication. It could have been malaria. It could have been cholera, typhoid, plague, fever. They could have poisoned him. He was dead, that was all we knew. It took me three days to tell my wife. Still, I know that she knew. She wouldn’t talk to me, and when I finally told her she slapped me. She blamed me for everything. A few weeks more and she went home. She said that she had made a mistake in choosing me for a husband. I can never go home now, do you understand? One child in China. The only possession of any value. They told me not to bring him here. Even if I did go back, they would not forgive me.” My friendship with Wu developed cautiously. I was a relief worker for Potable Water International, living in the village of Téguéla, twelve miles away in the bush. The odd weekends that I went into Séguéla for a break from my duties, I’d invariably run into Wu at Club des Amis, a bar that sat next to the remnants of a Catholic church that had been burned in the last uprising. Wen had died right around the time that I arrived in Ivory Coast, but I didn’t know that then. I knew Wu only as someone to drink with: the strange Chinese doctor who’d somehow ended up in this backwater, a chain-smoker who never let me pay for drinks. None of the other relief workers in the region befriended him, because his French was incredibly difficult to understand, and because they came into Séguéla from their villages looking to get drunk in peace. That was what I wanted, too, but Wu sought me out. And once I got used to his French I began to look forward to seeing him. He was educated and knew the world. We’d have long, drunken debates about politics and the future of relations between our countries. Often, we’d bring a few beers back to his three-room place on the edge of the market and watch an old Jackie Chan movie on his portable DVD player. I’d wake the next day on a wicker mat, a thin sheet draped over me. In the mornings, I was always embarrassed to have got so drunk, but Wu set me at ease. I’d sit on a crate in his sparse kitchen and watch him standing at the kerosene burner in his underwear, cooking noodles and shrimp, smoking a cigarette and tapping his ashes to the floor. We ate out of steel bowls balanced on our knees, clicking our chopsticks and slurping loudly, and he would tell me which local high-school teacher had recently contracted gonorrhea. He told me that one day I would have to visit his sister in Queens, New York, and say hello to her for him. She’d made it to America in a cargo container, and now owned her own takeaway shop. He promised that she’d treat me like a king. “Let’s have a drink together at the club, petit,” he’d say, lifting his eyebrows, but it would still be early morning, and I’d beg off. I was in Africa to assist my village; I had to get back to it. I’d find a ride out to the bush on a logging truck, and for the next six weeks or so I wouldn’t think of Wu at all. I liked Wu because he was kind to me, and because we shared our isolation. Our friendship grew, and I invited him to celebrate my twenty-sixth birthday with me at Club des Amis. Late that night, back at his house, Wu told me what had happened after Wen’s death. Before his wife left, Wu had taken her out to Mankono on his mobylette. Peiching sat behind him, sidesaddle, which was her way. The road was cracked and broken, washed out in places from the rain, and often they had to get off and he’d push the motorbike while she walked. They rode through forest, then through long and lush savanna, the baobab trees standing like sentinels. His wife had never been outside Séguéla; she was shocked by how primitive the villages were. People waved at them, but she pinched Wu to tell him not to stop. Again and again, she said, “How could our son have lived like this?” The girl’s village was a nothing place in the middle of nowhere: a collection of huts and the meagre people who lived in them. The chief—accompanied by what seemed like the entire population of the village—came out to meet them. For whatever reason, Wu was no longer angry at this point, and his wife, under her parasol, was quiet. The chief presented the girl to them, and she was clearly pregnant. What had his son seen in this small African girl? Wu wondered. All he knew of her was that she’d sold dried chilies in the market. There were dozens of girls like that. “Where did my son sleep?” his wife wanted to know. Wu translated her question to the chief, then to the girl and her family, and the chief led them through the identical thatched huts of the village, to one at the far end. Wu and his wife peered into the gloom of the simple structure. On the dirt floor was a frayed raffia mat, nothing more. “This is where my husband slept,” the girl told them. She showed them a ceramic cistern of water, a small calabash dipping cup. “This is the water I brought him to drink. This is the stool where he sat in the evening.” The girl seemed frightened. Wu felt sure that if it weren’t for the chief she would have run off into the bush. Apparently, Wen’s few possessions had already been claimed by the living. These were brought forth from the crowd and set at Wu’s feet. There was a well-worn machete and a tattered green boubou. The chief barked at a young man standing near him, and the young man removed his flip-flops. The chief set them before Wu and said, “These were his shoes.” A gnarled witch doctor approached them with his staff, looked down at his feet, and told Wu in a quiet voice, “The boy was sick for three days. The ancestors called for him. He was strong, strong in his heart. But the ancestors called to him with hunger. He died in my hut as I prayed over him. He was strong until the end.” The witch doctor pointed to another hut, the hut where Wen had died. It looked the same as the rest. The chief led them out into the tall grass of the savanna. They followed a path to a clearing under a stand of yellow and red blooming acacia. There were old graves here, mounds of stony soil where the earth had been pried open and turned, and behind these was another mound, the soil fresh and red, soft-looking, not so old. The chief said, “This is where he lies,” and he scattered rice onto the ground for luck. It was a heap of earth, pebbles all through it like rough gems, no marker of any sort, already settling down to anonymity. “Why didn’t you bring him into the town when he was sick?” Wu asked the chief. The girl spoke. She said, “My husband did not want to go into the town.” “Why didn’t you bring us his body?” The chief said, “He prayed with us. He died as a Muslim. We buried him here in the Muslim way.” Wu gave the girl money and told her to come to him in Séguéla. He promised to take care of her, to help her with her every need. Wu’s wife took the green boubou and the flip-flops. The girl’s mother hurried forward with a blue pagne and wrapped these things carefully in it. Wu drove them back to Séguéla, his wife holding the blue package close to her chest. He knew that his life with Peiching was over. As they left the village, Wu tried to see it, and the land, through his son’s eyes. White clouds scudded through the vast sky, and for the first time—and only briefly—Wu allowed himself to admit that Africa was beautiful. Wu’s story was known in all the villages, including mine. No one had ever told it to me because I hadn’t known to ask. One night, I said to my neighbors as we sat around the evening fire, “Everyone knows the story of the Chinese doctor, don’t they?” One of the young men nodded and said, “Oh, yes. It has been happening all the time you have been here.” He waved his hand before his face in the night as though he were trying to ward away trouble. He said, “A terrible story. Who knows what genies have their hands in it? Now the doctor wants the small boy. The girl does not want to give up her son. Who can win? Trouble like this is real trouble. Trouble like this must be given a wide berth.” Everyone around the fire mumbled assent. It was some time before the girl took Wu up on his offer, but after the child was born she came to live with her aunt in Séguéla, and brought the infant to Wu every day. Wu still had money then, and he lavished it on his grandson. He brought toys up from Abidjan—colorful balls, a plastic dump truck—and he bought Dutch wax pagnes and closed-toe shoes for the girl. She called the boy Moussa, a Muslim name, but Wu called him Didi. I was never sure exactly what this meant, but I had a sense that it meant “little.” Wu stopped drinking about this time, and for months I didn’t see him. Still, I kept abreast of his story by asking around. Once, I stopped by his house to see how he was. I saw the toys in the entryway, and understood that Wu was happy, that his grandson was in his life now, that Wu’s life had diverged from mine in a good way. The rainy season became the dry, and the villagers brought out harvest masks to dance benedictions to the ancestors. We all had a few weeks of rest, and then Ramadan was upon us. I rose at the imam’s call to eat okra soup with my neighbors by morning firelight in the darkness, and gave up food and drink during the day, though I didn’t pray. There was a prolonged lull in the violence that marked those years, and everyone began to wonder if it would last. Then, just when it seemed as if the nation had righted itself, fighting broke out everywhere. Once the government had regained control of the city, I went to Séguéla to see what had happened. The scene was one I’d witnessed nearly half a dozen times already: the homes of soldiers and Christians burned, the prefect’s offices looted and in shambles. Club des Amis was still standing, and the proprietor and his sisters greeted me warmly. The owner’s cousin was a subcommander of the region’s military detachment, and the heavy machine gun he had set up to protect the bar was still on its sandbags—a testament to how dangerous things had been. Wu was drinking in the corner. I was excited to see him, but he didn’t seem like himself at all. As I approached, I saw that his ashtray was full of cigarette butts, that he’d set a long row of the beer bottles he’d emptied on the ground beside him. His face was dark with stubble. He coughed and looked sick. “Did you ride out the trouble here, Wu?” I asked him. He nodded, waved his hand. He said, “They looted my house. Everything is gone.” “What about Didi?” “My grandson? The girl took him away weeks ago. She only wanted money. She told me I had to pay fifty thousand CFA every time I wanted to see him. She refused to leave him with me, because she was afraid I would take him to China. I told the police what she was doing. She heard of this and ran away. It’s her family who looted my house. I have not otherwise had trouble here.” We drank a few tall beers together, but the drinking didn’t help his mood. He was maudlin, smoking. The evening settled over us and turned to night, and Wu, his head lolling, wanted to drive himself home. Instead, I put him on the back of his mobylette and, one eye closed for precision, drove us there myself. All the windows of his house had been broken, and glass shards littered every room. They’d taken his television, his bed, his stove. On the floor in the debris were muddied aerograms covered in Chinese characters, and bent pictures of his son. We sat on crates in his bedroom, lit cigarettes. Wu had composed himself during the ride over. “Jack,” he said, waving his hand at the mess, “this is the life I’ve made for myself, isn’t it? I came here because of greed, and this is what I’ve earned.” What was there to say? Wu picked up one of the pictures, smoothed it flat on his thigh, and studied it a long time. He said, “You call me Wu. Everyone here calls me Wu. That is not my name. My name is Chang. Chang Gochiang.” “Chang Gochiang. What is Wu?” “A sound. Someone else’s name. Chang Gochiang is too difficult for them to say. My cousin told me to tell them ‘Wu.’ It is the same name as he uses. Many Chinese here use it. It is easy for them to say. But my name is Chang Gochiang.” I helped him sweep up and bought a cheap plastic mat from a night vender for him to sleep on. I worried that he would kill himself, but what could I do? When I left, he was sleeping on the mat in his underwear, the pictures of his life in a stack beside his head like a pillow. Wu lingered on in Séguéla after that uprising; he became something of a fool. To the locals, he was a strange man from China with a troubled past: a dead son, a lost wife, a half-breed grandchild somewhere in the distant villages. To the functionaries in the bars, he was a drunk, a wretch, a foreigner who’d come where he shouldn’t have for profit, who had lost everything because of greed. Besides, he knew too many of their dirty secrets. Wu bought another bed, and another television set to watch the Ivorian news. He would greet me perfunctorily at his door, as though our friendship belonged to a time he didn’t want to remember; he wouldn’t invite me in. When I saw him at the bar, he was usually buying beers for a table full of rowdy soldiers, or sitting with the magistrates and judges in their fine suits, pushing tumblers of Johnnie Walker their way. His French deteriorated. With drunken soldiers egging him on, he would arm-wrestle shoeshine boys, dirty fous, mugging to make everyone laugh when he lost. Now and again, witnessing his strange humiliation, I’d catch his eye from across the bar. Then his face would compose itself briefly, as though he wanted to say, “You know this is not who I am.” In my village, people were of two minds. Some would argue, “It’s terrible to lose a son. But the girl does not want to lose hers, either. Shouldn’t a child belong to its mother? The Chinaman wants the boy to ease his loss. But doesn’t the girl have a right to her son?” Others would say, “But why must that girl make so much trouble? The child is not a normal child here—his life will be one of ridicule. The Chinaman is wealthy, the girl will have other children. Better to let this troubled one go, keep the new ones, which will be truly black.” It wasn’t a secret that Wu was paying bribes right and left at this time. It was rumored that he’d given five hundred thousand CFA to the prefect and an equal sum to the district judge, and that each and every night he had drinks and cigarettes carried out to the soldiers who manned the checkpoints in and out of the city. A half-breed child was a difficult thing to hide. Soldiers in plain clothes went to the girl’s village, searched it, then searched all the villages of her relatives. Her father and brothers were brought to the Séguéla jail one by one, and fined enormous sums on the premise that their identity papers weren’t in order. No one’s identity papers were in order in the Muslim north. The girl’s relatives were tortured and released. If they knew where she had gone, they didn’t let on. Rumors circulated. Some had her living with a Senufo cousin outside Korhogo. Others put her in a Bozo fishing village north of Béoumi. The more romantic versions claimed that she’d drowned herself and the child in the Marahoué, or that a French dignitary had fallen in love with her in Abidjan, and whisked her and Didi away to Paris. The soldiers promised Wu that they were closing in. These reports made it even into the villages. Someone had seen a little boy with tea-colored skin and Chinese eyes wandering lost in a market in Boundiali, crying for his mother. Another had seen the girl, with the child tied to her back, trying to cross the Burkina border at Ferkéssédougou. Violence flared up here and there: Dioula labor strikes in Abidjan, Mossi lockouts on the great palm-oil plantations. The religious divisions rising in the country were like moisture gathering in the air. Soon, the dry season would end in great thunderstorms, too. Sometimes I would try to imagine the girl. Who was she? All I knew was that she had sold chilies in the Séguéla market, that she’d grown up in a village as obscure and primitive as the one I lived in. Somehow she’d made it into town, where the street lights and the few rusted taxis must have impressed her, and where she’d fallen for Wu’s son. There were examples of such flirtations every day in the market: bored girls teasing unemployed boys about their rags or their new muscles; boys teasing girls about their servitude, their illiteracy, their frayed pagnes. The boys said the girls were as skinny as plucked chickens; the girls told the boys they had donkeys’ teeth. All day it went on. And at night, after meals were eaten and dishes washed, the young people would stroll in tight groups under the orange street lights, and once in a while some bold girl or boy would glance around for aunts or cousins, then cross the street, touch an arm, grasp a hand, pass some moments in a shadow beside the loved one, too shy at first to say anything at all. There would have been stars in the sky the night they met. Perhaps she had said to him, “Tell me about your country.” Or perhaps he’d said to her, “Do you know about my country?” As an unmarried girl, she would have always been under the eye of her aunt and her aunt’s household. For his part, with his mother always home, Wen couldn’t possibly have brought her there. Maybe there was a grassy place in the bush where they could sit and look at the town’s lights. Maybe Wen had a friend who loaned them a room. Somehow, somewhere, they had got to know each other and had fallen in love. The girl called Wen “husband,” and he liked that. Did she imagine that they would live together in her village forever? Or had she hoped to travel with him to China one day? Had either of them stopped to consider the complications their child would face? Or had everything seemed golden and bright in the throes of their love and their youth? What I finally wondered was this: Had her heart been broken? Did she feel the loss of Wen as much as Wu did? Wu came to my village one Friday afternoon when everyone of age was praying at the mosque. I was sitting outside my hut eating the season’s last guavas, and some small children led him to me, running in front of his mobylette. The children were naked, potbellied, crusts dried under their noses; they stood quietly a short distance away from us, as though stunned by malnutrition and fatigue. Wu parked his bike, looked at me in my field rags, peered inside the gloom of my hut, grunted. “It’s a wonder that you are not dead, too,” he said. Wu looked neat. He was clean-shaven, and his hair had been cut. The wrecked and humiliated man I’d seen grovelling in the bars the past few months had somehow been returned to the doctor I had once known. “I need a favor, Jack,” he said. “I’ve never asked you for anything. Now I need your help. They have the girl in the Mankono jail. My money’s gone. I need to borrow a hundred thousand CFA, a document fee. But I also need a witness. Someone must sign that I am Didi’s legal guardian. No one in Séguéla will do this for me. If you won’t do it, then they will release her and I will never have my grandson.” Of course, I did not want to have to make this decision. With all the adults at the mosque, there was no one to lend me support, or to make an excuse for why I couldn’t go with him. There was simply a thin middle-aged man from China who had once been my friend, and some naked children staring at us numbly, not even blinking. For a long moment, I didn’t say anything. Wu looked away, and the children stared at me like a council of judges. The sky was blue, the day yellow. I set down the guava, went into my hut, took off my field clothes, and pulled on my green boubou. I slipped my identity papers into my pocket. When I went out, Wu kick-started his mobylette, and I got on behind him. “Tell the chief I’ve gone to Mankono. I will be back tomorrow, inshallah.” The children nodded grimly. The oldest girl said in her delicate voice, “Allah ee kissee, Tonton”—“God bless your route, Uncle.” Wu waited outside the bank in Séguéla with the motor running, and when I came out I gave him the money. Then he drove us through the streets to the courthouse, and the soldier at the gate told us the judge was in the bar. We found him there, in a purple suit, drinking whiskey at a table of soldiers. The music was loud and they were all laughing. They laughed anew at me in my boubou: a white man dressed as a Muslim. After a minute, the judge wiped his mouth with a cloth napkin, grew serious, and said, “Bon. Do you have the money, Wu?” Wu handed him the stack. The judge flipped through it quickly, tossed two soiled bills on the table, and folded the rest of it into his inner breast pocket. He put on his mirrored sunglasses and said something to the soldiers in Baoulé, and then we went out to where his driver waited in a black Mercedes. The ride to Mankono from Séguéla was long and silent. Even with the air-conditioning on, it was hot in the car, and I could smell the judge’s sweet cologne: lilac. The road was red and dusty, the savanna wide and dry on either side of it, a flat yellow plain. There were no other vehicles in sight, and, in the few villages we passed, people stood up from their labors to peer at us. “You’ll witness for him?” the judge said to me as we sat in the car on the Marahoué ferry, the old bargeman poling us across the dirty river on an oil-drum raft. “I will,” I told him. “Never in my life could I have imagined this, both a white man and a Chinaman in my car at the same time. It was very good that you brought your son to Africa, Wu. So many unexpected things this decision has brought all of us.” In Mankono, a soldier opened the gates of the jail and we drove through in a cloud of dust. Chickens scratched in the dry yard, and the office was bare and hot, a metal desk beneath a metal fan. The judge dictated to the uniformed gendarme at the typewriter, who worked carefully and deliberately. On the wall above him was a picture of the current general-president, looking just as pleased in his suit and sash as he did on the nation’s postage stamps. Beyond the door was a row of cells. Now and again, a yell sounded. A photographer came from the town on a bicycle and took Wu’s picture against a bare wall. Wu didn’t smile. The judge stamped and signed the documents, called Wu to sign, and then me. The documents were ornate, colorful with the blue ink of the round stamp. I didn’t bother reading what they said. The photographer, a Dioula in threadbare slacks, asked the judge’s permission to leave, but the judge told him to take another picture. He had me stand on one side of him, and Wu on the other. “A white, a yellow, and a black,” the judge said, and then the picture was taken. “Now may I go, patron?” the photographer asked, inching toward the door. Wu gave him some coins from his pocket and said, “One of me and my friend.” He held my hand as the photographer took our picture. Again, we didn’t smile. The gendarme barked for the soldier outside to come in, and handed him a thick ring of keys. The soldier went through to the cells, and I heard a metal door creak open. Then the soldier returned, pushing a small Worodougou girl by the shoulder. Her feet were bare, her wraps dirty. She didn’t look at any of us. Something in her downcast eyes said that she’d had enough. In her arms she held a small boy who blinked at the daylight streaming in from the window. His skin was the color of tea, his eyes were Chinese, his hair was straight and black. He was a handsome boy, delicate and frightened, wearing khaki shorts and a collared shirt, as though dressed for an occasion. “No problems, now, muso,” the judge said, pointing his thick finger at her, “and you’ll be free to go. Understand?” She nodded. The gendarme lifted the child from her by the arm, and the boy clung to her wrap, began to cry. He set the child on the desk, and pushed the girl out into the yard with the stock of his rifle. Through the window, I could see him push her all the way out through the gates and onto the street. Wu called to his grandson in a tender voice, and held out his arms as if he were coaxing a reluctant pet. I thought for an instant that Didi would cry, but he didn’t. Perhaps he’d had enough as well. The gendarme passed Didi to Wu, and Wu held the child close to him, petted his hair, kissed the top of his head. He spoke softly to the boy in Chinese, and Didi set his arms around his grandfather’s neck, as if he were tired. From the window of the car as we left, I saw the girl standing alone on the roadside, watching us go. She looked like any of the poor women there, but prettier, a small thing in the crowd. I assumed that she would cry out, chase us. But she held her shawl closed at her neck, and then a train of women in colorful wraps came by with basins of water on their heads, and the girl was lost among them, and in the swirling dust the car had left behind. For a while, Didi complained and kicked, and then he fell asleep. Wu closed his eyes and held him, oblivious now of the bumps in the road, of the film reel of Africa outside the window, which for him was becoming a memory. A few weeks later, the photographer came all the way from Mankono to my village on a bicycle to present me with the picture of Wu and me at the Mankono jail. I asked if he had news of the girl, but he shook his head no. Then he tucked the money I offered him into the pocket of his shirt, mounted his bicycle, and started back the way he’d come. In the picture, Wu and I looked more severe than in real life, taller. The fact that we’d been holding hands didn’t make it into the frame. There was a certified envelope from Abidjan waiting for me at the Séguéla post office the next time I went in. I waited until I was back in my hut to open it. Along with the money, Wu had included a brief note, which someone had typed for him in French. The Chinese Embassy had arranged a visa for Didi, and they would soon be leaving for Shanghai. “Things are good now,” he wrote. “What small thing I could have salvaged from this nightmare, I have.” He thanked me for what I’d done for him, wished me the best. If I was ever in Queens, I must visit his sister. If ever in Shanghai, I must come and see him. Time passed, and the news that my neighbors listened to on their transistor radios spoke of more and more trouble. Everyone was thinking about what would happen to the country, about what would happen to the village, and how they would survive the coming war. I was thinking, too. Somewhere, in the bush beyond Mankono, a young girl gazed at these same stars and wondered about her son. Somewhere in a tenement in Shanghai, a boy was growing taller each day, learning in a new language how to articulate to his grandfather his need now for rice, for candy, for juice, for toys, and, soon enough, for his father as well as his mother. 
The View from Castle Rock On a visit to Edinburgh with his father when he is nine or ten years old, Andrew finds himself climbing the damp, uneven stone steps of the Castle. His father is in front of him, some other men behind—it’s a wonder how many friends his father has found, standing in cubbyholes where there are bottles set on planks, in the High Street—until at last they crawl out on a shelf of rock, from which the land falls steeply away. It has just stopped raining, the sun is shining on a silvery stretch of water far ahead of them, and beyond that is a pale green and grayish-blue land, a land as light as mist, sucked into the sky. “America,” his father tells them, and one of the men says that you would never have known it was so near. “It is the effect of the height we are on,” another says. “There is where every man is sitting in the midst of his own properties and even the beggars is riding around in carriages,” Andrew’s father says, paying no attention to them. “So there you are, my lad”—he turns to Andrew—“and God grant that one day you will see it closer, and I will myself, if I live.” Andrew has an idea that there is something wrong with what his father is saying, but he is not well enough acquainted with geography to know that they are looking at Fife. He does not know if the men are mocking his father or if his father is playing a trick on them. Or if it is a trick at all. Some years later, in the harbor of Leith, on the fourth of June, 1818, Andrew and his father—whom I must call Old James, because there is a James in every generation—and Andrew’s pregnant wife, Agnes, his brother Walter, his sister Mary, and also his son James, who is not yet two years old, set foot on board a ship for the first time in their lives. Old James makes this fact known to the ship’s officer who is checking off the names. “The first time, serra, in all my long life. We are men of the Ettrick. It is a landlocked part of the world.” The officer says a word which is unintelligible to them but plain in meaning. Move along. He has run a line through their names. They move along or are pushed along, Young James riding on Mary’s hip. “What is this?” Old James says, regarding the crowd of people on deck. “Where are we to sleep? Where have all these rabble come from? Look at the faces on them—are they the blackamoors?” “Black Highlanders, more like,” Walter says. This is a joke, muttered so that his father cannot hear, Highlanders being one of the sorts the old man despises. “There are too many people,” his father continues. “The ship will sink.” “No,” Walter says, speaking up now. “Ships do not often sink because of too many people. That’s what the fellow was there for, to count the people.” Barely on board the vessel and this seventeen-year-old whelp has taken on knowing airs; he has taken to contradicting his father. Fatigue, astonishment, and the weight of the greatcoat he is wearing prevent Old James from cuffing him. The business of life aboard ship has already been explained to the family. In fact, it has been explained by the old man himself. He was the one who knew all about provisions, accommodations, and the kinds of people you would find on board. All Scotsmen and all decent folk. No Highlanders, no Irish. But now he cries out that it is like the swarm of bees in the carcass of the lion. “An evil lot, an evil lot. Oh, that ever we left our native land.” “We have not left yet,” Andrew says. “We are still looking at Leith. We would do best to go below and find ourselves a place.” More lamentation. The bunks are narrow planks with horsehair pallets that are both hard and prickly. “Better than nothing,” Andrew says. “Oh, that ever I was enticed to bring us here, onto this floating sepulchre.” Will nobody shut him up? Agnes thinks. This is the way he will go on and on, like a preacher or a lunatic, when the fit takes him. She cannot abide it. She is in more agony herself than he is ever likely to know. “Well, are we going to settle here or are we not?” she says. Some people have hung up their plaids or shawls to make a half-private space for their families. She goes ahead and takes off her outer wrappings to do the same. The child is turning somersaults in her belly. Her face is hot as a coal, her legs throb, and the swollen flesh in between them—the lips the child must soon part to get out—is a scalding sack of pain. Her mother would have known what to do about that. She would have known which leaves to mash to make a soothing poultice. At the thought of her mother such misery overcomes her that she wants to kick somebody. Why does Andrew not speak plainly to his father, reminding him of whose idea it was, who harangued and borrowed and begged to get them just where they are now? Andrew will not do it, Walter will only joke, and as for Mary she can hardly get her voice out of her throat in her father’s presence. Agnes comes from a large Hawick family of weavers, who work in the mills now but worked for generations at home. Working there they learned the art of cutting one another down to size, of squabbling and surviving in close quarters. She is still surprised by the rigid manners, the deference and silences in her husband’s family. She thought from the beginning that they were a queer sort and she thinks so still. They are as poor as her own folk but they have such a great notion of themselves. And what have they got to back it up? Mary has taken Young James back up to the deck. She could tell that he was frightened down there in the half-dark. He does not have to whimper or complain—she knows his feelings by the way he digs his little knees into her. The sails are furled tight. “Look up there, look up there,” Mary says, and points to a sailor who is busy high up in the rigging. The boy on her hip makes his sound for bird—“peep.” “Sailor-peep, sailor-peep,” she says. She and he communicate in a half-and-half language—half her teaching and half his invention. She believes that he is one of the cleverest children ever born into the world. Being the eldest of her family, and the only girl, she has tended to all her brothers, and been proud of them all at one time, but she has never known a child like this. Nobody else has any idea how original and independent he is. Men have no interest in children so young, and Agnes, his mother, has no patience with him. “Talk like folk,” Agnes tells him, and if he doesn’t she gives him a clout. “What are you?” she says. “Are you a folk or an elfit?” Mary fears Agnes’s temper, but in a way she doesn’t blame her. She thinks that women like Agnes—men’s women, mother women—lead an appalling life. First with what the men do to them—even as good a man as Andrew—and then with what the children do, coming out. She will never forget the way her own mother lay in bed, out of her mind with a fever, not knowing anyone, till she died, three days after Walter was born. She screamed at the black pot hanging over the fire, thinking it was full of devils. Mary—her brothers call her “poor Mary”—is under five feet tall and has a tight little face with a lump of protruding chin, and skin that is subject to fiery eruptions that take a long time to fade. When she is spoken to, her mouth twitches as if the words were all mixed up with her spittle and her crooked teeth, and the response she manages is a dribble of speech so faint and scrambled that it is hard for people not to think her dim-witted. She has great difficulty looking anybody in the eyes—even the members of her own family. It is only when she gets the boy hitched onto the narrow shelf of her hip that she is capable of some coherent and decisive speech—and then it is mostly to him. She hears the cow bawling before she can see it. Then she looks up and sees the brown beast dangling in the air, all caged in ropes and kicking and roaring frantically. It is held by a hook on a crane, which now hauls it out of sight. People around her are hooting and clapping their hands. A child cries out, wanting to know if the cow will be dropped into the sea. A man tells him no—she will go along with them on the ship. “Will they milk her, then?” “Aye. Keep still. They’ll milk her,” the man says reprovingly. And another man’s voice climbs boisterously over his. “They’ll milk her till they take the hammer to her, and then ye’ll have the blood pudding for yer dinner.” Now follow the hens, swung through the air in crates, all squawking and fluttering in their confinement and pecking one another when they can, so that some feathers escape and float down through the air. And after them a pig trussed up like the cow, squealing with a human note in its distress and shifting wildly in midair, so that howls of both delight and outrage rise below, depending on whether they come from those who are hit or those who see others hit. James is laughing, too. He recognizes shite, and cries out his own word for it, which is “gruggin.” Someday he may remember this, Mary thinks. I saw a cow and a pig fly through the air. Then he may wonder if it was a dream. And nobody will be there—she certainly won’t—to tell him that it was not, that it happened on this ship. It’s possible that he will never see a ship like this again in all his waking life. She has no idea where they will go when they reach the other shore, but she imagines that it will be someplace inland, among the hills, someplace like the Ettrick. She does not think that she will live long, wherever they go. She coughs in the summer as well as the winter, and when she coughs her chest aches. She suffers from sties, and cramps in the stomach, and her bleeding comes rarely but may last a month when it does. She hopes, though, that she will not die while James is still in need of her, which he will be for a while yet. She knows that the time will come when he will turn away, as her brothers did, when he will become ashamed of the connection with her. At least, that is what she tells herself will happen, but like anybody in love she cannot believe it. On a trip to Peebles, Walter bought himself a notebook to write in, but for several days he has found too much to pay attention to and too little space or quiet on the deck even to open it. Finally, after some investigating, he has discovered a favorable spot, near the cabins on the upper deck. We came on board on the 4th day of June and lay the 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th in the Leith roads getting the ship to a place where we could set sail, which was on the 9th. We passed the corner of Fifeshire all well nothing occurring worth mentioning till this day the 13th in the morning when we were awakened by a cry, John o’ Groat’s House. We could see it plain and had a fine sail across the Pentland Firth having both wind and tide in our favour and it was in no way dangerous as we had heard tell. There was a child had died, the name of Ormiston and its body was thrown overboard sewed up in a piece of canvas with a large lump of coal at its feet. He pauses in his writing to think of the weighted sack falling down through the water. Would the piece of coal do its job, would the sack fall straight down to the very bottom of the sea? Or would the current of the sea be strong enough to keep lifting it up and letting it fall, pushing it sideways, taking it as far as Greenland or south to the tropical waters full of rank weeds, the Sargasso Sea? Or might some ferocious fish come along and rip the sack and make a meal of the body before it had even left the upper waters and the region of light? He pictures it now—the child being eaten. Not swallowed whole as in the case of Jonah but chewed into bits as he himself would chew a tasty chunk from a boiled sheep. But there is the matter of a soul. The soul leaves the body at the moment of death. But from which part of the body does it leave? The best guess seems to be that it emerges with the last breath, having been hidden somewhere in the chest, around the place of the heart and the lungs. Though Walter has heard a joke they used to tell about an old fellow in the Ettrick, to the effect that he was so dirty that when he died his soul came out his arsehole, and was heard to do so with a mighty explosion. This is the sort of information that preachers might be expected to give you—not mentioning anything like an arsehole, of course, but explaining something of the proper location and exit. Yet they shy away from it. Also they cannot explain—at least, he has never heard one explain—how the souls maintain themselves outside of bodies until the Day of Judgment and how on that day each one finds and recognizes the body that is its own and reunites with it, though it be not so much as a skeleton at that time. Though it be dust. There must be some who have studied enough to know how all this is accomplished. But there are also some—he has learned this recently—who have studied and read and thought till they have come to the conclusion that there are no souls at all. No one cares to speak about these people, either, and indeed the thought of them is terrible. How can they live with the fear—indeed, the certainty—of Hell before them? On the third day aboard ship Old James gets up and starts to walk around. After that, he stops and speaks to anybody who seems ready to listen. He tells his name, and says that he comes from Ettrick, from the Valley and Forest of Ettrick, where the old kings of Scotland used to hunt. “And on the field at Flodden,” he says, “after the battle of Flodden, they said you could walk up and down among the corpses and pick out the men from the Ettrick, because they were the tallest and the strongest and the finest-looking men on the ground. I have five sons and they are all good strong lads, but only two of them are with me. One of my sons is in Nova Scotia. The last I heard of him he was in a place called Economy, but we have not had any word of him since and I do not know whether he is alive or dead. My eldest son went off to work in the Highlands, and the son that is next to the youngest took it into his head to go off there, too, and I will never see either of them again. Five sons and, by the mercy of God, all grew to be men, but it was not the Lord’s will that I should keep them with me. A man’s life is full of sorrow. I have a daughter as well, the oldest of them all, but she is nearly a dwarf. Her mother was chased by a ram when she was carrying her.” On the afternoon of the 14th a wind from the North and the ship began to shake as if every board that was in it would fly loose from every other. The buckets overflowed from the people that were sick and vomiting and there was the contents of them slipping all over the deck. All people were ordered below but many of them crumpled up against the rail and did not care if they were washed over. None of our family was sick however and now the wind has dropped and the sun has come out and those who did not care if they died in the filth a little while ago have got up and dragged themselves to be washed where the sailors are splashing buckets of water over the decks. The women are busy too washing and rinsing and wringing out all the foul clothing. It is the worst misery and the suddenest recovery I have seen ever in my life. A young girl ten or twelve years old stands watching Walter write. She is wearing a fancy dress and bonnet and has light-brown curly hair. Not so much a pretty face as a pert one. “Are you from one of the cabins?” she says. Walter says, “No. I am not.” “I knew you were not. There are only four of them, and one is for my father and me and one is for the captain and one is for his mother, and she never comes out, and one is for the two ladies. You are not supposed to be on this part of the deck unless you are from one of the cabins.” “Well, I did not know that,” Walter says, but does not bestir himself to move away. “I have seen you before writing in your book.” “I haven’t seen you.” “No. You were writing, so you didn’t notice. I haven’t told anybody about you,” she adds carelessly, as if that were a matter of choice and she might well change her mind. When she leaves, Walter adds a sentence. And this night in the year 1818 we lost sight of Scotland. The words seem majestic to him. He is filled with a sense of grandeur, solemnity, and personal importance. 16th was a very windy day with the wind coming out of the SW the sea was running very high and the ship got her gib-boom broken on account of the violence of the wind. And our sister Agnes was taken into the cabin. “Sister,” he has written, as if she were all the same to him as poor Mary, but that is not the case. Agnes is a tall well-built girl with thick dark hair and dark eyes. The flush on one of her cheeks slides into a splotch of pale brown as big as a handprint. It is a birthmark, which people say is a pity, because without it she would be handsome. Walter can hardly bear looking at it, but this is not because it is ugly. It is because he longs to touch it, to stroke it with the tips of his fingers. It looks not like ordinary skin but like the velvet on a deer. His feelings about her are so troubling that he can speak to her only unpleasantly, if he speaks at all. And she pays him back with a good seasoning of contempt. Agnes thinks that she is in the water and the waves are heaving her up and slamming her down. Every time they slap her down it is worse than the time before, and she sinks farther and deeper, the moment of relief passing before she can grab it, for the next wave is already gathering its power to hit her. Then sometimes she knows that she is in a bed, a strange bed and strangely soft, but it is all the worse for that because when she sinks down there is no resistance, no hard place where the pain has to stop. People keep rushing back and forth in front of her. They are all seen sideways and all transparent, talking very fast so she can’t make them out, and maliciously taking no heed of her. She sees Andrew in the midst of them, and two or three of his brothers. Some of the girls she knows are there, too—the friends she used to lark around with in Hawick. And they do not give a poor penny for the plight she is in now. She never knew before that she had so many enemies. They are grinding her down and pretending they don’t even know it. Their movement is grinding her to death. Her mother bends over her and says in a drawling, cold, lackadaisical voice, “You are not trying, my girl. You must try harder.” Her mother is all dressed up and talking fine, like some Edinburgh lady. Evil stuff is poured into her mouth. She tries to spit it out, knowing it is poison. I will just get up and get out of this, she thinks. She starts trying to pull herself loose from her body, as if it were a heap of rags on fire. She hears a man’s voice, giving some order. “Hold her,” he says, and she is split and stretched wide open to the world and the fire. “Ah—ah—anh,” the man says, panting as if he had been running in a race. Then a cow that is so heavy, bawling heavy with milk, rears up and sits down on Agnes’s stomach. “Now. Now,” the man says, and he groans at the end of his strength as he tries to heave it off. The fools. The fools, ever to have let it in. She was not better till the 18th when she was delivered of a daughter. We having a surgeon on board nothing happened. Nothing occurred till the 22nd this was the roughest day we had till then experienced. Agnes was mending in an ordinary way till the 29th we saw a great shoal of porpoises and the 30th (yesterday) was a very rough sea with the wind blowing from the west we went rather backwards than forwards. “In the Ettrick there is what they call the highest house in Scotland,” Old James says, “and the house that my grandfather lived in was a higher one than that. The name of the place is Phauhope—they call it Phaup. My grandfather was Will O’Phaup, and fifty years ago you would have heard of him if you came from any place south of the Forth and north of the Debatable Lands.” There are people who curse to see him coming, but others who are glad of any distraction. His sons hear his voice from far away, amid all the other commotion on the deck, and make tracks in the opposite direction. For the first two or three days, Young James refused to be unfastened from Mary’s hip. He was bold enough, but only if he could stay there. At night he slept in her cloak, curled up beside her, and she wakened aching along her left side, because she had lain stiffly all night so as not to disturb him. Then in the space of one morning he was down and running about and kicking at her if she tried to hoist him up. Everything on the ship calls out for his attention. Even at night he tries to climb over her and run away in the dark. So she gets up aching not only from her position but from lack of sleep altogether. One night she drops off and the child gets loose, but most fortunately stumbles against his father’s body in his bid for escape. Henceforth, Andrew insists that he be tied down every night. He howls, of course, and Andrew shakes him and cuffs him and then he sobs himself to sleep. Mary lies by him softly explaining that this is necessary so that he cannot fall off the ship into the ocean, but he regards her at these times as his enemy, and if she puts out a hand to stroke his face he tries to bite it with his baby teeth. Every night he goes to sleep in a rage, but in the morning when she unties him, still half asleep and full of his infant sweetness, he clings to her drowsily and she is suffused with love. Then one day he is gone. She is in the line for wash water and she turns around and he is not beside her. She was just speaking a few words to the woman ahead of her, answering a question about Agnes and the infant, she had just told the woman its name—Isabel—and in that moment he got away. Everything in an instant is overturned. The nature of the world is altered. She runs back and forth, crying out James’s name. She runs up to strangers, to sailors who laugh at her as she begs them, “Have you seen a little boy? Have you seen a little boy this high, he has blue eyes?” “I seen fifty or sixty of them like that in the last five minutes,” a man says to her. A woman trying to be kind says that he will turn up, Mary should not worry herself, he will be playing with some of the other children. Some women even look about, as if they would help her search, but of course they cannot, they have their own responsibilities. This is what Mary sees plainly in those moments of anguish: that the world which has turned into a horror for her is still the same ordinary world for all these other people and will remain so even if James has truly vanished, even if he has crawled through the ship’s railings—she has noticed everywhere the places where this would be possible—and been swallowed by the ocean. The most brutal and unthinkable of all events, to her, would seem to most others like a sad but not extraordinary misadventure. It would not be unthinkable to them. Or to God. For in fact when God makes some rare and remarkable, beautiful human child is He not particularly tempted to take His creature back, as if the world did not deserve it? Still, she is praying to Him all the time. At first she only called on the Lord’s name. But as her search grows more specific and in some ways more bizarre—she is ducking under clotheslines that people have contrived for privacy, she thinks nothing of interrupting folk at any business, she flings up the lids of their boxes and roots in their bedclothes, not even hearing them when they curse her—her prayers also become more complicated and audacious. She tries to think of something to offer, something that could equal the value of James’s being restored to her. But what does she have? Nothing of her own—not health or prospects or anybody’s regard. There is no piece of luck or even a hope that she can offer to give up. What she has is James. And how can she offer James for James? This is what is knocking around in her head. But what about her love of James? Her extreme and perhaps idolatrous, perhaps wicked love of another creature. She will give up that, she will give it up gladly, if only he isn’t gone. If only he can be found. If only he isn’t dead. She recalls all this an hour or two after somebody has noticed the boy peeping out from under a large empty bucket, listening to the hubbub. And she retracts her vow at once. Her understanding of God is shallow and unstable, and the truth is that, except in a time of terror such as she has just experienced, she does not really care. She has always felt that God or even the idea of Him was more distant from her than from other people. There is a stubborn indifference in her that nobody knows about. In fact, everybody may imagine that she clings secretly to religion because there is so little else available to her. They are quite wrong, and now that she has James back she gives no thanks but thinks what a fool she was and how she could not give up her love of him any more than stop her heart beating. After that, Andrew insists that James be tied down not only by night but also by day, to the post of the bunk or to their clothesline on the deck. Andrew has trounced his son for the trick he played, but the look in James’s eyes says that his tricks are not finished. Agnes keeps asking for salt, till they begin to fear that she will fuss herself into a fever. The two women looking after her are cabin passengers, Edinburgh ladies, who took on the job out of charity. “You be still now,” they tell her. “You have no idea what a fortunate lassie you are that we had Mr. Suter on board.” They tell her that the baby was turned the wrong way inside her, and they were all afraid that Mr. Suter would have to cut her, and that might be the end of her. But he had managed to get it turned so that he could wrestle it out. “I need salt for my milk,” says Agnes, who is not going to let them put her in her place with their reproaches and their Edinburgh speech. They are idiots, anyway. She has to explain to them how you must put a little salt in the baby’s first milk, just place a few grains on your finger and squeeze a drop or two of milk onto it and let the child swallow that before you put it to the breast. Without this precaution there is a good chance that it will grow up half-witted. “Is she even a Christian?” one of them says to the other. “I am as much as you,” Agnes says. But to her own surprise and shame she starts to weep aloud, and the baby howls along with her, out of sympathy or hunger. And still she refuses to feed it. Mr. Suter comes in to see how she is. He asks what all the grief is about, and they tell him the trouble. “A newborn baby to get salt in its stomach—where did she get the idea?” He says, “Give her the salt.” And he stays to see her squeeze the milk on her salty finger, lay the finger to the infant’s lips, and follow it with her nipple. He asks her what the reason is and she tells him. “And does it work every time?” She tells him—a little surprised that he is as stupid as they are, though gentler—that it works without fail. “So where you come from they all have their wits about them? And are all the girls strong and good-looking like you?” She says that she would not know about that. Sometimes visiting young men, educated men from the town, used to hang around her and her friends, complimenting them and trying to work up a conversation, and she always thought that any girl who allowed it was a fool, even if the man was handsome. Mr. Suter is far from handsome—he is too thin, and his face is badly pocked, so that at first she took him for an old fellow. But he has a kind voice, and if he is teasing her a little there is no harm in it. No man would have the nature left to deal with a woman after looking at her spread wide, her raw parts open to the air. “Are you sore?” he asks, and she believes there is a shadow on his damaged cheeks, a slight blush rising. She says that she is no worse than she has to be, and he nods, picks up her wrist, and bows over it, strongly pressing her pulse. “Lively as a racehorse,” he says, with his hands still above her, as if he did not know where to put them next. Then he decides to push back her hair and press his fingers to her temples, as well as behind her ears. She will recall this touch, this curious, gentle, tingling pressure, with an addled mixture of scorn and longing, for many years to come. “Good,” he says. “No sign of a fever.” He watches, for a moment, the child sucking. “All’s well with you now,” he says, with a sigh. “You have a fine daughter, and she can say all her life that she was born at sea.” Andrew arrives later and stands at the foot of the bed. He has never looked on her in such a bed as this (a regular bed, even though bolted to the wall). He is red with shame in front of the ladies, who have brought in the basin to wash her. “That’s it, is it?” he says, with a nod—not a glance—at the bundle beside her. She laughs in a vexed way and asks what did he think it was. That is all it takes to knock him off his unsteady perch, to puncture his pretense of being at ease. Now he stiffens up, even redder, doused with fire. It isn’t just what she said. It is the whole scene—the smell of the infant and the milk and the blood, and most of all the basin, the cloths, the women standing by, with their proper looks that might seem to a man both admonishing and full of derision. He looks as if he can’t think of another word to say, so she has to tell him, with rough mercy, to get on his way, there’s work to be done here. Some of the girls used to say that when you finally gave in and lay down with a man—even granting he was not the man of your first choice—it gave you a helpless but calm and even sweet feeling. Agnes does not recall that she felt that with Andrew. All she felt was that he was an honest lad and the right one for her in her circumstances, and that it would never occur to him to run off and leave her. Walter has continued to go to the same private place to write in his book and nobody has caught him there. Except the girl, of course. One day he arrives at the place and she is there before him, skipping with a red-tasselled rope. When she sees him she stops, out of breath. And no sooner does she catch her breath than she begins to cough, so that it is several minutes before she can speak. She sinks down against the pile of canvas that conceals the spot, flushed, her eyes full of bright tears from the coughing. He simply stands and watches her, alarmed at this fit but not knowing what to do. “Do you want me to fetch one of the ladies?” He is on speaking terms with the Edinburgh women now, on account of Agnes. They take a kind interest in the mother and baby and Mary and Young James, and think that the old father is comical. They are also amused by Andrew and Walter, who seem to them so bashful. The coughing girl is shaking her curly head violently. “I don’t want them,” she says, when she can gasp the words out. “I have never told anybody that you come here. So you mustn’t tell anybody about me.” “Well, you are here by rights.” She shakes her head again and gestures for him to wait till she can speak more easily. “I mean that you saw me skipping. My father hid my skipping rope but I found where he hid it.” “It isn’t the Sabbath,” Walter says reasonably. “So what is wrong with you skipping?” “How do I know?” she says, regaining her saucy tone. “Perhaps he thinks I am too old for it. Will you swear not to tell anyone?” What a queer, self-important little thing she is, Walter thinks. She speaks only of her father, so he thinks it likely that she has no brothers or sisters and—like himself—no mother. That condition has probably made her both spoiled and lonely. The girl—her name is Nettie—becomes a frequent visitor when Walter tries to write in his book. She always says that she does not want to disturb him, but after keeping ostentatiously quiet for about five minutes she interrupts him with some question about his life or a bit of information about hers. It is true that she is motherless and an only child. She has never even been to school. She talks most about her pets—those dead and those living at her house in Edinburgh—and a woman named Miss Anderson, who used to travel with her and teach her. It seems that she was glad to see the back of this woman, and surely Miss Anderson, too, was glad to depart, after all the tricks that were played on her—the live frog in her boot and the woollen but lifelike mouse in her bed. Nettie has been back and forth to America three times. Her father is a wine merchant whose business takes him to Montreal. She wants to know all about how Walter and his people live. Her questions are, by country standards, quite impertinent. But Walter does not really mind. In his own family he has never been in a position that allowed him to instruct or teach or tease anybody younger than himself, and it gives him pleasure. What does Walter’s family have for supper when they are at home? How do they sleep? Are animals kept in the house? Do the sheep have names, and what are the sheepdogs’ names, and can you make pets of them? What is the arrangement of the scholars in the schoolroom? Are the teachers cruel? What do some of his words mean that she does not understand, and do all the people where he is from talk like him? “Oh, aye,” Walter says. “Even His Majesty the Duke does. The Duke of Buccleuch.” She laughs and freely pounds her little fist on his shoulder. “Now you are teasing me. I know it. I know that Dukes are not called Your Majesty. They are not.” One day she arrives with paper and drawing pencils. She says that she has brought them to keep herself busy, so she will not be a nuisance to him. She offers to teach him to draw, if he wants to learn. But his attempts make her laugh, and he deliberately does worse and worse, till she laughs so hard she has one of her coughing fits. Then she says that she will do some drawings in the back of his notebook, so that he will have them to remember the voyage by. She draws the sails up above and a hen that has somehow escaped its cage and is trying to travel like a seabird over the water. She sketches from memory her dog that died. And she makes a picture of the icebergs she saw, higher than houses, on one of her past voyages with her father. The setting sun shone through these icebergs and made them look—she says—like castles of gold. Rose-colored and gold. Everything that she has drawn, including the icebergs, has a look that is both guileless and mocking, peculiarly expressive of herself. “The other day I was telling you about that Will O’Phaup that was my grandfather, but there was more to him than I told you. I did not tell you that he was the last man in Scotland to speak to the fairies. It is certain that I have never heard of any other, in his time or later.” Walter is sitting around a corner, near some sailors who are mending the torn sails, but by the sounds that are made throughout the story he can guess that the out-of-sight audience is mostly women. There is one tall well-dressed man—a cabin passenger, certainly—who has paused to listen within Walter’s view. There is a figure close to this man’s other side, and at one moment in the tale this figure peeps around to look at Walter and he sees that it is Nettie. She seems about to laugh, but she puts a finger to her lips as if warning herself—and Walter—to keep silent. The man must, of course, be her father. The two of them stand there listening quietly till the tale is over. Then the man turns and speaks directly, in a familiar yet courteous way, to Walter. “Are you writing down what you can make of this?” the man asks, nodding at Walter’s notebook. Walter is alarmed, not knowing what to say. But Nettie looks at him with calming reassurance, then drops her eyes and waits beside her father as a demure little miss should. “I am writing a journal of the voyage,” Walter says stiffly. “Now, that is interesting. That is an interesting fact, because I, too, am keeping a journal of this voyage. I wonder if we find the same things worth writing of.” “I only write what happens,” Walter says, wanting to make clear that this is a job for him and not an idle pleasure. Still, he feels that some further justification is called for. “I am writing to keep track of every day so that at the end of the voyage I can send a letter home.” The man’s voice is smoother and his manner gentler than any address Walter is used to. He wonders if he is being made sport of in some way. Or if Nettie’s father is the sort of person who strikes up an acquaintance in the hope of getting hold of your money for some worthless investment. Not that Walter’s looks or dress would mark him out as a likely prospect. “So you do not describe what you see? Only what, as you say, is happening?” Walter is about to say no, and then yes. For he has just thought, if he writes that there is a rough wind, is that not describing? You do not know where you are with this kind of person. “You are not writing about what we have just heard?” “No.” “It might be worth it. There are people who go around now prying into every part of Scotland and writing down whatever these old country folk have to say. They think that the old songs and stories are disappearing and that they are worth recording. I don’t know about that—it isn’t my business. But I would not be surprised if the people who have written it all down will find that it was worth their trouble—I mean to say, there will be money in it.” Nettie speaks up unexpectedly. “Oh, hush, Father. The old fellow is starting again.” This is not what any daughter would say to her father in Walter’s experience, but the man seems ready to laugh, looking down at her fondly. And indeed Old James’s voice has been going this little while, breaking in determinedly and reproachfully on those of his audience who might have thought it was time for their own conversations. “And still another time, but in the long days in the summer, out on the hills late in the day but before it was well dark . . . ” Walter has heard the stories his father is spouting, and others like them, all his life, but the odd thing is that until they came on board this ship he had never heard them from his father. The father he knew until a short while ago would, he is certain, have had no use for them. “This is a terrible place we live in,” his father used to say. “The people is all full of nonsense and bad habits, and even our sheep’s wool is so coarse you cannot sell it. The roads are so bad a horse cannot go more than four miles an hour. And for plowing here they use the spade or the old Scotch plow, though there has been a better plow in other places for fifty years. ‘Oh, aye, aye,’ they say when you ask them. ‘Oh, aye, but it’s too steep hereabouts, the land is too heavy.’ “To be born in the Ettrick is to be born in a backward place,” he would say, “where the people is all believing in old stories and seeing ghosts, and I tell you it is a curse to be born in the Ettrick.” And very likely that would lead him on to the subject of America, where all the blessings of modern invention were put to eager use and the people could never stop improving the world around them. But hearken at him now. “You must come up and talk to us on the deck above,” Nettie’s father says to Walter when Old James has finished his story. “I have business to think about and I am not much company for my daughter. She is forbidden to run around, because she is not quite recovered from the cold she had in the winter, but she is fond of sitting and talking.” “I don’t believe it is the rule for me to go there,” Walter says, in some confusion. “No, no, that is no matter. My girl is lonely. She likes to read and draw, but she likes company, too. She could show you how to draw, if you like. That would add to your journal.” So they sit out in the open and draw and write. Or she reads aloud to him from her favorite book, which is “The Scottish Chiefs.” He already knows the story—who does not know about William Wallace?—but she reads smoothly and at just the proper speed and makes some things solemn and others terrifying and others comical, so that soon he is as much in thrall to the book as she is. Even though, as she says, she has read it twelve times already. He understands a little better now why she has so many questions to ask him. He and his folk remind her of the people in her book, such people as there were out on the hills and in the valleys in the olden times. What would she think if she knew that the old fellow, the old tale-spinner spouting all over the boat and penning people up to listen as if they were sheep—what would she think if she knew that he was Walter’s father? She would be delighted, probably, more curious about Walter’s family than ever. She would not look down on them, except in a way that she could not help or recognize. We came on the fishing bank of Newfoundland on the 12th of July and on the 19th we saw land and it was a joyful sight to us. It was a part of Newfoundland. We sailed between Newfoundland and St. Paul’s Island and having a fair wind both the 18th and the 19th we found ourselves in the river on the morning of the 20th and within sight of the mainland of North America. We were awakened at about 1 o’clock in the morning and I think every passenger was out of bed at 4 o’clock gazing at the land, it being wholly covered with wood and quite a new sight to us. It was a part of Nova Scotia and a beautiful hilly country. This is the day of wonders. The land is covered with trees like a head with hair and behind the ship the sun rises, tipping the top trees with light. The sky is clear and shining as a china plate and the water playfully ruffled with wind. Every wisp of fog has gone and the air is full of the resinous smell of the trees. Seabirds are flashing above the sails all golden like creatures of Heaven, but the sailors fire a few shots to keep them from the rigging. Mary holds Young James up so that he may always remember this first sight of the continent that will be his home. She tells him the name of this land—Nova Scotia. “It means New Scotland,” she says. Agnes hears her. “Then why doesn’t it say so?” Mary says, “It’s Latin, I think.” Agnes snorts with impatience. The baby was woken early by all the hubbub and celebration, and now she is miserable, wanting to be on the breast all the time, wailing whenever Agnes tries to take her off. Young James, observing all this closely, makes an attempt to get on the other breast, and Agnes bats him off so hard that he staggers. “Suckie-laddie,” Agnes calls him. He yelps a bit, then crawls around behind her and pinches the baby’s toes. Another whack. “You’re a rotten egg, you are,” his mother says. “Somebody’s been spoiling you till you think you’re the Laird’s arse.” Agnes’s roused voice always makes Mary feel as if she were about to catch a blow herself. Old James is sitting with them on the deck, but pays no attention to this domestic unrest. “Will you come and look at the country, Father?” Mary says uncertainly. “You can have a better view from the rail.” “I can see it well enough,” Old James says. Nothing in his voice suggests that the revelations around them are pleasing to him. “Ettrick was covered with trees in the old days,” he says. “The monks had it first and after that it was the Royal Forest. It was the King’s forest. Beech trees, oak trees, rowan trees.” “As many trees as this?” Mary says, made bolder than usual by the novel splendors of the day. “Better trees. Older. It was famous all over Scotland. The Royal Forest of Ettrick.” “And Nova Scotia is where our brother James is,” Mary continues. “He may be or he may not. It would be easy to die here and nobody know you were dead. Wild animals could have eaten him.” Mary wonders how her father can talk in this way, about how wild animals could have eaten his own son. Is that how the sorrows of the years take hold of you—turning your heart of flesh to a heart of stone, as it says in the old song? And if it is so, how carelessly and disdainfully might he talk about her, who never meant to him a fraction of what the boys did? Somebody has brought a fiddle onto the deck and is tuning up to play. The people who have been hanging on to the rail and pointing out to one another what they can all see on their own—likewise repeating the name that by now everyone knows, Nova Scotia—are distracted by these sounds and begin to call for dancing. Dancing, at seven o’clock in the morning. Andrew comes up from below, bearing their supply of water. He stands and watches for a little, then surprises Mary by asking her to dance. “Who will look after the boy?” Agnes says immediately. “I am not going to get up and chase him.” She is fond of dancing, but is prevented now not only by the nursing baby but by the soreness of the parts of her body that were so battered in the birth. Mary is already refusing, saying she cannot go, but Andrew says, “We will put him on the tether.” “No. No,” Mary says. “I’ve no need to dance.” She believes that Andrew has taken pity on her, remembering how she used to be left on the sidelines in school games and at the dancing, though she can actually run and dance perfectly well. Andrew is the only one of her brothers capable of such consideration, but she would almost rather he behaved like the others and left her ignored as she has always been. Pity galls her. Young James begins to complain loudly, having recognized the word “tether.” “You be still,” his father says. “Be still or I’ll clout you.” Then Old James surprises them all by turning his attention to his grandson. “You. Young lad. You sit by me.” “Oh, he will not sit,” Mary says. “He will run off and then you cannot chase him, Father. I will stay.” “He will sit,” Old James says. “Well, settle it,” Agnes says to Mary. “Go or stay.” Young James looks from one to the other, cautiously snuffling. “Does he not know even the simplest word?” his grandfather says. “Sit. Lad. Here.” Young James lowers himself, reluctantly, to the spot indicated. “Now go,” Old James says to Mary. And all in confusion, on the verge of tears, she is led away. People are dancing not just in the figure of the reel but quite outside of it, all over the deck. They are grabbing anyone at all and twirling around. They are even grabbing some of the sailors, if they can get hold of them. Men dance with women, men dance with men, women dance with women, children dance with one another or all alone and without any idea of the steps, getting in the way—but everybody is in everybody’s way already and it is no matter. Mary has caught hands with Andrew and is swung around by him, then passed on to others, who bend to her and fling her undersized body about. She dances down at the level of the children, though she is less bold and carefree. In the thick of so many bodies she is helpless, she cannot pause—she has to stamp and wheel to the music or be knocked down. “Now, you listen and I will tell you,” Old James says. “This old man, Will O’Phaup, my grandfather—he was my grandfather as I am yours—Will O’Phaup was sitting outside his house in the evening, resting himself. It was mild summer weather. All alone, he was. And there was three little lads hardly bigger than you are yourself, they came around the corner of Will’s house. They told him good evening. ‘Good evening to you, Will O’Phaup,’ they says. ‘Well, good evening to you, lads. What can I do for you?’ ‘Can you give us a bed for the night or a place to lie down?’ they says. And ‘Aye,’ he says. ‘Aye, I’m thinking three bits of lads like yourselves should not be so hard to find room for.’ And he goes into the house with them following and they says, ‘And by the bye, could you give us the key, too, the big silver key that you had of us?’ Well, Will looks around, and he looks for the key, till he thinks to himself, What key was that? For he knew he never had such a thing in his life. Big key or silver key, he never had it. ‘What key are you talking about?’ And turns himself around and they are not there. Goes out of the house, all around the house, looks to the road. No trace of them. Looks to the hills. No trace. Then Will knew it. They was no lads at all. Ah, no. They was no lads at all.” James has not made any sound. At his back is the thick and noisy wall of dancers, to the side his mother, with the small clawing beast that bites into her body. And in front of him is the old man with his rumbling voice, insistent but remote, and his blast of bitter breath. It is the child’s first conscious encounter with someone as perfectly self-centered as he is. He is barely able to focus his intelligence, to show himself not quite defeated. “Key,” he says. “Key?” Agnes, watching the dancing, catches sight of Andrew, red in the face and heavy on his feet, linked arm to arm with various jovial women. There is not one girl whose looks or dancing gives Agnes any worries. Andrew never gives her any worries, anyway. She sees Mary tossed around, with even a flush of color in her cheeks—though she is too shy, and too short, to look anybody in the face. She sees the nearly toothless witch of a woman who birthed a child a week after her own, dancing with her hollow-cheeked man. No sore parts for her. She must have dropped the child as slick as if it were a rat, then given it to one or the other of her weedy-looking daughters to mind. She sees Mr. Suter, the surgeon, out of breath, pulling away from a woman who would grab him, ducking through the dance and coming to greet her. She wishes he would not. Now he will see who her father-in-law is; he may have to listen to the old fool’s gabble. He will get a look at their drab, and now not even clean, country clothes. He will see her for what she is. “So here you are,” he says. “Here you are with your treasure.” It is not a word that Agnes has ever heard used to refer to a child. It seems as if he is talking to her in the way he might talk to a person of his own acquaintance, some sort of a lady, not as a doctor talks to a patient. Such behavior embarrasses her and she does not know how to answer. “Your baby is well?” he says, taking a more down-to-earth tack. He is still catching his breath from the dancing, and his face is covered with a fine sweat. “Aye.” “And you yourself? You have your strength again?” She shrugs very slightly, so as not to shake the child off the nipple. “You have a fine color, anyway. That is a good sign.” He asks then if she will permit him to sit and talk to her for a few moments, and once more she is confused by his formality but tells him that he may do as he likes. Her father-in-law gives the surgeon—and her as well—a despising glance, but Mr. Suter does not notice it, perhaps does not even realize that the old man and the fair-haired boy who sits straight-backed facing the old man have anything to do with her. “What will you do in Canada West?” he asks. It seems to her the silliest question. She shakes her head—what can she say? She will wash and sew and cook and almost certainly suckle more children. Where that will be does not much matter. It will be in a house, and not a fine one. She knows now that this man likes her, and in what way. She remembers his fingers on her skin. What harm can happen, though, to a woman with a baby at her breast? She feels stirred to show him a bit of friendliness. “What will you do?” she says. He smiles and says that he supposes he will go on doing what he has been trained to do, and that the people in America—so he has heard—are in need of doctors and surgeons, just like other people in the world. “But I do not intend to get walled up in some city. I’d like to get as far as the Mississippi River, at least. Everything beyond the Mississippi used to belong to France, you know, but now it belongs to America and it is wide open—anybody can go there, except that you may run into the Indians. I would not mind that, either. Where there is fighting with the Indians, there’ll be all the more need for a surgeon.” She does not know anything about this Mississippi River but she knows that Mr. Suter does not look like a fighting man himself—he does not look as if he could stand up in a quarrel with the brawling lads of Hawick, let alone red Indians. Two dancers swing so close to them as to put a wind into their faces. It is a young girl, a child, really, whose skirts fly out—and who should she be dancing with but Agnes’s brother-in-law Walter. Walter makes some sort of silly bow to Agnes and the surgeon and his father, and the girl pushes him and turns him around and he laughs at her. She is dressed like a young lady, with bows in her hair. Her face is lit up with enjoyment, her cheeks are glowing like lanterns, and she treats Walter with great familiarity, as if she had got hold of a large toy. “That lad is your friend?” Mr. Suter says. “No. He is my husband’s brother.” The girl is laughing quite helplessly, as she and Walter—through her heedlessness—have almost knocked down another couple in the dance. She is not able to stand up for laughing, and Walter has to support her. Then it appears that she is not laughing but coughing. Walter is holding her against himself, half carrying her to the rail. “There is one lass that will never have a child to her breast,” Mr. Suter says, his eyes flitting to the sucking child before resting again on the girl. “I doubt if she will live long enough to see much of America. Does she not have anyone to look after her? She should not have been allowed to dance.” He stands up so that he can keep the girl in view as Walter holds her by the rail. “There, she has stopped,” he says. “No hemorrhaging. At least not this time.” Agnes can see that he takes a satisfaction in the verdict he has passed on this girl. And it occurs to her that this must be because of some condition of his own—that he must be thinking that he is not so bad off by comparison. There is a cry at the rail, nothing to do with the girl and Walter. Another cry, and many people break off dancing and rush to look at the water. Mr. Suter rises and goes a few steps in that direction, following the crowd, then turns back. “A whale,” he says. “They are saying there is a whale to be seen off the side.” “You stay here!” Agnes shouts in an angry voice, and he turns to her in surprise. But he sees that her words are meant for Young James, who is on his feet. “This is your lad, then?” Mr. Suter exclaims, as if he had made a remarkable discovery. “May I carry him over to have a look?” And that is how Mary—happening to raise her face in the crush of passengers—beholds Young James, much amazed, being carried across the deck in the arms of a hurrying stranger, a pale and determined dark-haired man who is surely a foreigner. A child stealer, or child murderer, heading for the rail. She gives so wild a shriek that anybody would think she was in the Devil’s clutches herself, and people make way for her as they would for a mad dog. “Stop, thief! Stop, thief!” she is crying. “Take the boy from him. Catch him. James! James! Jump down!” She flings herself forward and grabs the child’s ankles, yanking him so that he howls in fear and outrage. The man bearing him nearly topples over but doesn’t give him up. He holds on and pushes at Mary with his foot. “Take her arms,” he shouts to those around them. He is short of breath. “She is in a fit.” Andrew has pushed his way in, through people who are still dancing and people who have stopped to watch the drama. He manages somehow to get hold of Mary and Young James and to make clear that one is his son and the other his sister and that it is not a question of fits. All is shortly explained with courtesies and apologies from Mr. Suter. “I had just stopped for a few minutes’ talk with your wife, to ask her if she was well,” the surgeon says. “I did not take time to bid her goodbye, so you must do it for me.” Mary remains unconvinced by the surgeon’s story. Of course he would have to say to Agnes that he was taking the child to look at the whale. But that does not make it the truth. Whenever the picture of that devilish man carrying Young James flashes through her mind, and she feels in her chest the power of her own cry, she is astonished and happy. It is still her belief that she has saved him. We were becalmed the 21st and 22nd but we had rather more wind the 23rd but in the afternoon were all alarmed by a squall of wind accompanied by thunder and lightning which was very terrible and we had one of our mainsails that had just been mended torn to rags again with the wind. The squall lasted about 8 or 10 minutes and the 24th we had a fair wind which sent us a good way up the River, where it be came more strait so that we saw land on both sides of the River. But we becalmed again till the 31st when we had a breeze only two hours. Nettie’s father’s name is Mr. Carbert. Sometimes he sits and listens to Nettie read or talks to Walter. The day after the dancing, when many people are in a bad humor from exhaustion and some from drinking whiskey, and hardly anybody bothers to look at the shore, he seeks Walter out to talk to him. “Nettie is so taken with you,” he says, “that she has got the idea that you must come along with us to Montreal.” He gives an apologetic laugh, and Walter laughs, too. “Then she must think that Montreal is in Canada West,” Walter says. “No. No. I am not making a joke. I looked out for you on purpose when she was not with me. You are a fine companion for her and it makes her happy to be with you. And I can see that you are an intelligent lad and a prudent one and one who would do well in my office.” “I am with my father and my brother,” Walter says, so startled that his voice has a youthful yelp in it. “We are going to get land.” “Well, then. You are not the only son your father has. There may not be enough good land for all of you. And you may not always want to be a farmer.” Walter tells himself that this is true. “My daughter, now, how old do you think she is?” Walter cannot think. He shakes his head. “She is fourteen, nearly fifteen,” Nettie’s father says. “You would not think so, would you? But it does not matter—that is not what I am talking about. Not about you and Nettie, anything in years to come. You understand that? There is no question of years to come. But I would like for you to come with us and let her be the child that she is and make her happy now with your company. Then I would naturally want to repay you, and there would also be work for you in the office, and if all went well you could count on advancement.” Both of them at this point notice that Nettie is coming toward them. She sticks out her tongue at Walter, so quickly that her father apparently does not notice. “No more now. Think about it and pick your time to tell me,” her father says. “But sooner rather than later would be best.” Walter does not take long to make up his mind. He knows enough to thank Mr. Carbert, but says that he has not thought of working in an office, or at any indoor job. He means to work with his family until they are set up with land to farm and then when they do not need his help so much he thinks of being a trader to the Indians, a sort of explorer. Or a miner for gold. “As you will,” Mr. Carbert says. They walk several steps together, side by side. “I must say I had thought you were rather more serious than that. Fortunately, I said nothing to Nettie.” But Nettie has not been fooled as to the subject of their talks together. She pesters her father until he has to let her know how things have gone and then she seeks out Walter. “I will not talk to you anymore from now on,” she says, in a more grownup voice than he has ever heard from her. “It is not because I am angry but just because if I go on talking to you I will have to think all the time about how soon I’ll be saying goodbye to you. But if I stop now I will have already said goodbye, so it will all be over sooner.” She spends the time that is left walking sedately with her father, in her finest clothes. Walter feels sorry to see her—in these fine cloaks and bonnets she looks more of a child than ever, and her show of haughtiness is touching—but there is so much for him to pay attention to that he seldom thinks of her when she is out of sight. Years will pass before she will reappear in his mind. But when she does he will find that she is a source of happiness, available to him till the day he dies. Sometimes he will even entertain himself with thoughts of what might have happened had he taken up the offer. He will imagine a radiant recovery, Nettie’s acquiring a tall and maidenly body, their life together. Such foolish thoughts as a man may have in secret. Several boats from the land came alongside of us with fish, rum, live sheep, tobacco, etc. which they sold very high to the passengers. The 1st of August we had a slight breeze and on the morning of the 2nd we passed by the Isle of Orleans and about six in the morning we were in sight of Quebec in as good health I think as when we left Scotland. We are to sail for Montreal tomorrow in a steamboat. My brother Walter in the former part of this letter has written a large journal which I intend to sum up in a small ledger. We have had a very prosperous voyage being wonderfully preserved in health. We can say nothing yet about the state of the country. There is a great number of people landing here but wages is good. I can neither advise nor discourage people from coming. The land is very extensive and very thin-peopled. I think we have seen as much land as might serve all the people in Britain uncultivated and covered with wood. We will write you again as soon as settled. When Andrew has added this paragraph, Old James is persuaded to add his signature to those of his two sons before the letter is sealed and posted to Scotland from Quebec. He will write nothing else, saying, “What does it matter to me? It cannot be my home, it can be nothing to me but the land where I will die.” “It will be that for all of us,” Andrew says. “But when the time comes we will think of it more as a home.” “Time will not be given to me to do that.” “Are you not well, Father?” “I am well and I am not.” Young James is now paying occasional attention to the old man, sometimes stopping in front of him and looking straight into his face, with a sturdy insistence. “He bothers me,” Old James says. “I don’t like the boldness of him. He will go on and on and not remember a thing of Scotland, where he was born, or the ship he travelled on. He will get to talking another language the way they do when they go to England, only it will be worse than theirs. He looks at me with the kind of look that says he knows that me and my times is all over with.” “He will remember plenty of things,” Mary says. Since the dancing and the incident of Mr. Suter she has grown more forthright within the family. “And he doesn’t mean his look to be bold,” she says. “It is just that he is interested in everything. He understands what you say, far more than you think. He takes everything in and he thinks about it.” Her eyes fill with tears of enthusiasm, but the others look down at the child with sensible reservations. Young James stands in the midst of them—bright-eyed, fair, and straight. Slightly preening, somewhat wary, unnaturally solemn, as if he had indeed felt descend upon him the burden of the future. The adults, too, feel the astonishment of the moment. It is as if they had been borne for these past six weeks not on a ship but on one great wave, which has landed them with a mighty thump on this bewildering shore. Thoughts invade their heads, wheeling in with the gulls’ cries, their infidel commotion. Mary thinks that she could snatch up Young James and run away into some part of the strange city of Quebec and find work as a sewing woman (talk on the boat has made her aware that such work is in demand). Then she could bring him up all by herself, as if she were his mother. Andrew thinks of what it would be like to be here as a free man, without wife or father or sister or children, without a single burden on his back. What could he do then? He tells himself that it is no harm, surely, it is no harm to think about it. Agnes has heard women on the boat say that the officers you see in the street here are surely the best-looking men anywhere in the world, and that they are ten or twenty times more numerous than the women. Which must mean that you can get what you want out of them—that is, marriage. Marriage to a man with enough money that you could ride in a carriage and send presents to your mother. If you were not married already and dragged down with two children. Walter thinks that his brother is strong and Agnes is strong—she can help him on the land while Mary cares for the children. Who ever said that he should be a farmer? When they get to Montreal he will go and attach himself to the Hudson’s Bay Company and they will send him to the frontier, where he will find riches as well as adventure. Old James has sensed defection and begins to lament openly, “How shall we sing the Lord’s song in a strange land?” These travellers lie buried—all but one of them—in the graveyard of Boston Church, in Esquesing, in Halton County, Ontario, almost within sight, and well within sound, of Highway 401, which at that spot, just a few miles from Toronto, may be the busiest road in Canada. Old James is here. And Andrew and Agnes. Nearby is the grave of Mary, married after all and buried beside Robert Murray, her husband. Women were scarce and so were prized in the new country. She and Robert did not have any children together, but after Mary’s early death he married another woman and with her he had four sons who lie here, dead at the ages of two, and three, and four, and thirteen. The second wife is here, too. Her stone says “Mother.” Mary’s says “Wife.” Agnes is here, having survived the births of many children. In a letter to Scotland, telling of the death of Old James in 1829 (a cancer, not much pain until near the end, though “it eat away a great part of his cheek and jaw”), Andrew mentions that his wife has been feeling poorly for the past three years. This may be a roundabout way of saying that during those years she bore her sixth, seventh, and eighth children. She must have recovered her health, for she lived into her eighties. Andrew seems to have prospered, though he spread himself less than Walter, who married an American girl from Montgomery County, in New York State. Eighteen when she married him, thirty-three when she died after the birth of her ninth child. Walter did not marry again, but farmed successfully, educated his sons, speculated in land, and wrote letters to the government complaining about his taxes. He was able, before he died, to take a trip back to Scotland, where he had himself photographed wearing a plaid and holding a bouquet of thistles. On the stone commemorating Andrew and Agnes there appears also the name of their daughter Isabel, who, like her mother, died an old woman. Born at Sea. Here, too, is the name of Andrew and Agnes’s firstborn child, Isabel’s elder brother. Young James was dead within a month of the family’s landing at Quebec. His name is here, but surely he cannot be. They had not yet taken up their land when he died; they had not even seen this place. He may have been buried somewhere along the way from Montreal to York or in that hectic new town itself. Perhaps in a raw temporary burying ground now paved over, perhaps without a stone in a churchyard, where other bodies would someday be laid on top of his. Dead of some mishap in the busy streets, or of a fever, or dysentery, or any of the ailments, the accidents, that were the common destroyers of little children in his time. 
Gómez Palacio I went to Gómez Palacio during one of the worst periods of my life. I was twenty-three years old and I knew that my days in Mexico were numbered. My friend Montero, who worked for the Arts Council, had found me a stint teaching a writing workshop in that town, with its hideous name. First, to warm up, I had to tour the other writing workshops the Arts Council had established throughout the region. A bit of a holiday in the north to start off, Montero said, then you can get down to work in Gómez Palacio and forget all your problems. I don’t know why I accepted. I knew that under no circumstances would I settle down in Gómez Palacio. I knew that I wouldn’t stick to running a writing workshop in some godforsaken town in northern Mexico. I left Mexico City one morning on a bus packed to capacity and began my tour. I went to San Luis Potosí, Aguascalientes, Guanajuato, León—though probably not in that order. I can’t remember which town came first or how long I spent in each. Then Torreón and Saltillo. I went to Durango as well. Finally, I arrived in Gómez Palacio and visited the Arts Council offices, where I met my future students. In spite of the heat, I couldn’t stop shivering. The director, a plump, middle-aged woman with bulging eyes, wearing a large print dress featuring almost all of the state’s native flowers, took me to my lodgings: a seedy motel on the edge of town, next to a highway leading nowhere. She used to pick me up herself every morning. She had an enormous sky-blue car, which she drove perhaps too boldly, though generally speaking she wasn’t a bad driver. It was an automatic, and her feet barely reached the pedals. Invariably, the first thing we did was stop at a roadside restaurant that was visible in the distance from the motel, a reddish bump on the blue-and-yellow horizon. There we breakfasted on orange juice and Mexican-style eggs, followed by several cups of coffee, all paid for (I presume) with Arts Council vouchers—not cash, in any case. Then she would lean back in her chair and talk about her life in that northern town; her poetry, which had been published by a small local press subsidized by the Arts Council; and her husband, who didn’t understand the poet’s calling or the suffering it entailed. Meanwhile, I chain-smoked Bali cigarettes and looked out the window at the highway, thinking about the disaster that was my life. Then we’d get back into her car and head off to the main office of the Arts Council, a two-story building whose only redeeming feature was an unpaved yard with three trees and an abandoned, or unfinished, garden, swarming with zombie-like adolescents, who were studying painting, music, or literature. The first time I was there, I hardly noticed the yard. The second time, it made me shudder. None of this makes any sense, I thought, but deep down I knew that it did make sense and that was what I found unbearably sad, to use a rather hyperbolic expression, though it seemed perfectly accurate at the time. Maybe I was confusing sense with necessity. Maybe I was just a nervous wreck. I found it hard to get to sleep at night. I had nightmares. Before going to bed, I would make sure the door and the windows of my room were securely and tightly shut. My throat always felt dry, and the only solution was to drink water. I was continually getting up and going to the bathroom to refill my glass. Since I was up, I would check the door and the windows again to see that they were properly shut. Sometimes I forgot my fears and stayed at the window, looking at the desert stretching off into the dark. Then I went back to bed and closed my eyes, but having drunk so much water I soon had to get up again to urinate. And since I was up I would check all the locks and then stand listening to the distant sounds of the desert (the muffled hum of cars heading north or south) and looking out of the window at the night. And so on until dawn, when I could finally get some unbroken sleep, two or three hours at most. On my last full day, while we were having breakfast, the director asked about my eyes. It’s because I don’t sleep much, I said. Yes, they’re bloodshot, she said, and changed the subject. That afternoon, as she was taking me back to the motel, she asked if I would like to drive for a bit. I don’t know how to drive, I said. She burst out laughing and pulled onto the shoulder. A white refrigerated truck went past. I managed to read what was written on the side in large blue letters: “the widow padilla’s meat.” The truck had Monterrey license plates and the driver stared at us with a curiosity that struck me as excessive. The director opened her door and got out. Get in the driver’s seat, she said. I obeyed. She got into the passenger seat and ordered me to go. I drove along the gray strip of highway connecting Gómez Palacio and the motel. When I reached the motel, I didn’t stop. I looked over at the director: she was smiling—she didn’t mind if I drove a bit farther. Until then, both of us had stared at the highway in silence. But when the motel was behind us she started talking about her poetry, her work, and her insensitive husband. When she had said her piece, she turned on the cassette player and put in a tape: a woman singing rancheras. The singer had a sad voice that was always a couple of notes ahead of the orchestra. I’m her friend, the director said. What? I said. She’s a close friend of mine, the director said. Ah. She’s from Durango, she said. You’ve been there, haven’t you? Yes, I’ve been to Durango, I said. And what were the writing workshops like? Worse than the ones here, I replied, meaning it as a compliment, although she didn’t seem to take it that way. She’s from Durango, but she lives in Ciudad Juárez, she said. Sometimes, when she’s going back home to see her mother, she calls me up and I reorganize my schedule so I can go to Durango and spend a few days with her. That’s nice, I said, keeping my eyes on the road. I stay at her house—her mother’s house, actually, the director said. The two of us sleep in her room and spend hours talking and listening to records. Every now and then, one of us goes to the kitchen to make coffee. I usually take cookies with me, La Regalada cookies, her favorite. And we drink coffee and eat cookies. We’ve known each other since we were fifteen. She’s my best friend. On the horizon I could see the highway disappearing into the hills. Night was beginning to approach from the east. Days before, at the motel, I had asked myself, What color is the desert at night? A stupid question, yet somehow I felt it held the key to my future, or perhaps not so much my future as my capacity for suffering. One afternoon, at the writing workshop in Gómez Palacio, a boy asked me why I wrote poetry and how long I thought I would go on doing it. The director wasn’t present. There were five students in the workshop: four boys and a girl. You could tell from the way they dressed that two of them were very poor. The girl was short and thin and her clothes were garish. The boy who asked the question should have been studying at a university; instead, he was working in a soap factory, the biggest and probably the only soap factory in the state. Another boy was a waiter in an Italian restaurant, the other two were in college, and the girl was neither studying nor working. By chance, I replied. For a while, none of us said anything. I considered the possibility of taking a job in Gómez Palacio and staying there for the rest of my life. I had noticed a pair of pretty girls among the painting students in the yard. With a bit of luck, I might have managed to marry one of them. The prettier one also seemed to be the more conventional. I imagined a long, complicated engagement. I imagined a dark, cool house and a garden full of plants. And how long do you think you’ll go on writing? the boy who worked in the soap factory asked again. I could have said anything, but opted for simplicity. I don’t know, I said. What about you? I started writing because poetry sets me free, sir, and I’m never going to stop, he said, with a smile that barely hid his pride and determination. As an answer, it was too vague and declamatory to be convincing, yet somehow it gave me a glimpse of the factory worker’s life, not as it was then but as it had been when he was fifteen, or maybe twelve. I saw him running or walking through the outskirts of Gómez Palacio, under a sky that looked like a rockslide. I saw his friends and wondered how they could possibly survive. Yet, one way or another, they probably had. Then we read some poems. The only one who had any talent was the girl. But by then I wasn’t sure of anything. When we came out of the classroom, the director was waiting with two guys who turned out to be civil servants employed by the state of Durango. My first thought was: They’re policemen, here to arrest me. The kids said goodbye and off they went, the skinny girl with one of the boys and the other three on their own. I followed them down the hallway with its peeling walls, as if I had forgotten to say something to one of them. From the door I saw them disappear at both ends of that street in Gómez Palacio. The director said, She’s my best friend. That was all. The highway was no longer a straight line. In the rearview mirror I could see an enormous wall rising beyond the town. It took me a while to realize it was the night. The singer on the cassette began to warble another song. The lyrics were about a remote village in the north of Mexico. where everyone was happy except her. I had the impression that the director was crying. Silent, dignified, unstoppable tears. But I couldn’t confirm this impression. I had to keep my eyes on the road. The director took out a handkerchief and blew her nose. Turn the headlights on, I heard her say in a barely audible voice. I kept driving. Turn on the headlights, she repeated, and without waiting for a response she leaned over and did it herself. Slow down, she said after a while, her voice stronger now, as the singer reached the final notes of her song. What a sad song, I said, just for something to say. I stopped the car by the side of the road and got out. It wasn’t yet completely dark, but it was no longer day. The land all around us and the hills into which the highway stretched were a deep, intense shade of yellow that I have never seen anywhere else. As if the light (though it seemed to me not so much light as pure color) were charged with something, I didn’t know what, but it might well have been eternity. I was immediately embarrassed to have had such a thought. I stretched my legs. A car whizzed past, honking its horn. I told him where to go with a gesture. Maybe it wasn’t just a gesture. Maybe I yelled, Go fuck yourself, and the driver saw or heard me. But it’s unlikely, like most things in this story. In any case, when I think about the driver all I can see is my own image frozen in his rearview mirror: my hair is still long; I’m thin, wearing a denim jacket and a pair of awful, oversize glasses. The car pulled up several metres in front of us. The driver didn’t get out or back up or honk the horn again, but his mere presence strained the space that we were now, in some sense, sharing. Cautiously, I walked around to the director’s side of the car. She rolled down her window and asked me what had happened. Her eyes were bulging more than ever. I said I didn’t know. It’s a man, she said, and slid across into the driver’s seat. I got into the seat she had left. It was hot and moist, as if she had a fever. Through the windshield I could see the man’s silhouette; like us, he was facing forward, toward the line of the highway beginning to wind its way through the hills. It’s my husband, the director said with her eyes fixed on the stationary car, as if she were talking to herself. Then she flipped the cassette over and turned up the volume. Sometimes my friend calls me up, she said, when she’s touring in towns she doesn’t know. Once, she called from Ciudad Madero. She’d been singing all night at the Oil Workers Union building and she called me at four in the morning. Another time she called from Reinosa. That’s nice, I said. Not especially, the director said. She just calls. Sometimes she needs to talk. If my husband answers, she hangs up. For a while, neither of us said anything. I imagined the director’s husband with the telephone in his hand. He picks up the telephone, says, Hello, who is it? Then he hears someone hang up at the other end and he hangs up, too, almost by reflex. I asked the director if she wanted me to get out and say something to the driver of the other car. There’s no need, she said. Which seemed a reasonable answer to me, although in fact it was crazy. I asked what her husband was going to do, if it really was her husband. He’ll stay there until we go, the director said. Then we’d better go now, I said. The director seemed to be lost in thought, though later it occurred to me that maybe all she was doing was closing her eyes and listening to her friend from Durango, drinking that song down to the very last drop. Then she turned on the ignition, pulled out slowly, and passed the car. I looked out the window as we went by, but the driver turned his back to us and I couldn’t see his face. Are you sure it was your husband? I asked as we sped off again toward the hills. No, the director said, and started laughing. I don’t think it was. I started laughing, too. The car looked like his, she said, almost choking with laughter, but it probably wasn’t him. So it might have been? I said. Not unless he’s changed his license plates, the director said. At which point I understood that the whole thing had been a joke. I shut my eyes. Then we came out of the hills and into the desert: a plain swept by the headlights of cars heading north or back toward Gómez Palacio. It was already night. Now we’re coming to a very special place, the director said. Those were her words: very special. I wanted you to see this, she said proudly. This is one of my favorite things. She pulled over and stopped in a sort of rest area, although it was really no more than a patch of ground big enough for trucks to park on. Lights were sparkling in the distance: a town or a restaurant. We didn’t get out. The director pointed toward something—a stretch of highway that must have been about five kilometres away, maybe less, maybe more. She even wiped the inside of the windshield with a cloth so I could see better. I looked: I saw the headlights of cars. From the way the beams of light were swivelling, there must have been a bend in the highway. And then I saw some green shapes in the desert. Did you see? the director asked. Yes, lights, I replied. The director looked at me: her bulging eyes gleamed, as do, no doubt, the eyes of the small mammals native to the inhospitable environs of Gómez Palacio, in the state of Durango. Then I looked again in the direction she had indicated. At first, I couldn’t see anything, only darkness, the sparkling lights of that restaurant or town. Some cars passed and the beams of their headlights carved the space in two. Their progress was exasperatingly slow, but we were beyond exasperation. And then I saw how the light, seconds after the car or truck had passed that spot, turned back on itself and hung in the air, a green light that seemed to breathe, alive and aware for a fraction of a second in the middle of the desert, set free, a marine light, moving like the sea but with all the fragility of earth, a green, prodigious, solitary light that must have been produced by something near that curve in the road—a sign, the roof of an abandoned shed, huge sheets of plastic spread on the ground—but that, to us, appeared to be a dream or a miracle, which comes to the same thing in the end. Then the director started the car, turned it around, and drove back to the motel. I was to leave for Mexico City the next day. When we got back to the motel, the director got out of the car and walked with me part of the way. Before we got to my room, she held out her hand and said goodbye. I know you’ll forgive my eccentricities, she said. After all, we both read poetry. I was grateful she hadn’t said we were both poets. When I got to my room, I switched on the light, took off my jacket, and drank some water straight from the tap. Then I went to the window. Her car was still in the parking lot. I opened the door and was hit in the face by a gust of desert air. The car was empty. A little farther off, beside the highway, I saw the director, who looked as if she were contemplating a river or the landscape of another planet. The way she was standing, with her arms slightly raised, she might have been talking to the air or reciting, or playing statues, like a little girl. I didn’t sleep well. At dawn, the director came to fetch me. She took me to the bus station and told me that if I ever wanted to come back I would be very welcome at the workshop. I said I would have to think about it. She said that was fine, best to think things over. Then she said, A hug. I bent down and hugged her. The seat I had been given was on the other side of the bus, so I didn’t see her leave. The last thing I remember, vaguely, is her standing there, looking at the bus, or perhaps at her watch. Then I had to sit down so the other passengers could get past, and when I looked again she was gone. “Gómez Palacio,” by Roberto Bolaño, from “Last Evenings on Earth and Other Stories,” copyright © 2002 by Editorial Anagrama, translation copyright © 2006 by Chris Andrews. Reprinted by permission of New Directions Publishing Corp.
Commcomm Tuesday morning, Jillian from Disasters calls. Apparently an airman named Loolerton has poisoned a shitload of beavers. I say we don’t kill beavers, we harvest them, because otherwise they nibble through our Pollution Control Devices (P.C.D.s) and polluted water flows out of our Retention Area and into the Eisenhower Memorial Wetland, killing beavers. “That makes sense,” Jillian says, and hangs up. The press has a field day. “air force kills beavers to save beavers,” says one headline. “murdered beavers speak of air force cruelty,” says another. “We may want to pids this,” Mr. Rimney says. I check the files: There’s a circa-1984 tortoise-related pids from a base in Oklahoma. There’s a wild-horse-related pids from North Dakota. Also useful is a Clinton-era pids concerning the inadvertent destruction of a dove breeding ground. From these I glean an approach: I admit we harvested the beavers. I concede the innocence and creativity of beavers. I explain the harvesting as a regrettable part of an ongoing effort to prevent Pollution Events from impacting the Ottowattamie. Finally I pledge we’ll find a way to preserve our P.C.D.s without, in the future, harming beavers. We are, I say, considering transplanting the beaver population to an innovative Beaver Habitat, to be installed upstream of the Retention Area. I put it into PowerPoint. Rimney comes back from break and reads it. “Innovative Beaver Habitat?” he says. “I say we’re considering,” I say. “All hail to the king of pids,” he says. I call Ed at the paper; Jason, Heather, and Randall at NewsTen, ActionSeven, and NewsTeamTwo, respectively; then Larry from Facilities. I have him reserve the Farragut Auditorium for Wednesday night, and just like that I’ve got a fully executable pids and can go joyfully home to my wife and our crazy energized loving kids. Just kidding. I wish. I walk between Mom and Dad into the kitchen, make those frozen mini-steaks called SmallCows. You microwave them or pull out their ThermoTab. When you pull the ThermoTab, something chemical happens and the SmallCows heat up. I microwave. Unfortunately, the ThermoTab erupts and when I take the SmallCows out they’re coated with a green, fibrous liquid. So I make ramen. “You don’t hate the Latvians, do you?” Dad says to me. “It was not all Latvians done it,” Mom says. I turn on Tape 9, “Omission/Partial Omission.” When sadness-inducing events occur, the guy says, invoke your Designated Substitute Thoughtstream. Your D.S.T. might be a man falling off a cliff but being caught by a group of good friends. It might be a bowl of steaming soup, if one likes soup. It might be something as distractive/mechanical as walking along a row of cans, kicking them down. “And don’t even hate them two,” Mom says. “They was just babies.” “They did not do that because they was Latvian,” says Dad. “They did it because of they had poverty and anger.” “What the hell,” says Mom. “Everything turned out good.” My D.S.T. is tapping a thin rock wall with a hammer. When that wall cracks, there’s another underneath. When that wall cracks, there’s another underneath. “You hungry?” Mom says to Dad. “Never hungry anymore,” he says. “Me too,” she says. “Plus I never pee.” “Something’s off but I don’t know what,” Dad says. When that wall cracks, there’s another underneath. “Almost time,” Mom says to me, her voice suddenly nervous. “Go upstairs.” I go to my room, watch some World Series, practice my pids in front of the mirror. What’s going on down there I don’t watch anymore: Mom’s on the landing in her pajamas, calling Dad’s name, a little testy. Then she takes a bullet in the neck, her hands fly up, she rolls the rest of the way down, my poor round Ma. Dad comes up from the basement in his gimpy comic trot, concerned, takes a bullet in the chest, drops to his knees, takes one in the head, and that’s that. Then they do it again, over and over, all night long. Finally it’s morning. I go down, have a bagel. Our house has this turret you can’t get into from inside. You have to go outside and use a ladder. There’s nothing up there but bird droppings and a Nixon-era plastic Santa with a peace sign scratched into his toy bag. That’s where they go during the day. I climbed up there once, then never again: jaws hanging open, blank stares, the two of them sitting against the wall, insulation in their hair, holding hands. “Have a good one,” I shout at the turret as I leave for work. Which I know is dumb, but still. When I get to work, Elliot Giff from Safety’s standing in the Outer Hall. Giff’s a GS-9 with pink glasses and an immense underchin that makes up a good third of the length of his face. “Got this smell-related call?” he says. We step in. There’s definitely a smell. Like a mildew/dirt/decomposition thing. “We have a ventilation problem,” Rimney says stiffly. “No lie,” Giff says. “Smells like something crawled inside the wall and died. That happened to my aunt.” “Your aunt crawled inside a wall and died,” Rimney says. “No, a rat,” says Giff. “Finally she had to hire a Puerto Rican fellow to drill a hole in her wall. Maybe you should do that.” “Hire a Puerto Rican fellow to drill a hole in your aunt’s wall,” Rimney says. “I like how you’re funny,” Giff says. “There’s joy in that.” Giff’s in the ChristLife Reënactors. During the reënactments, they eat only dates and drink only grape juice out of period-authentic flasks. He says that this weekend’s reënactment was on the hill determined to be the most topographically similar to Calvary in the entire Northeast. I ask who he did. He says the guy who lent Christ his mule on Palm Sunday. Rimney says it’s just like Giff to let an unemployed Jew borrow his ass. “You’re certainly not hurting me with that kind of talk,” Giff says. “I suppose I’m hurting Christ,” says Rimney. “Not hardly,” says Giff. On Rimney’s desk is a photo of Mrs. Rimney before the stroke: braless in a tank top, hair to her waist, holding a walking stick. In the photo, Rimney’s wearing a bandanna, pretending to toke something. Since the stroke, he works his nine or ten, gets groceries, goes home, cooks, bathes Val, does the dishes, goes to bed. My feeling is, no wonder he’s mean. Giff starts to leave, then doubles back. “You and your wife are in the prayers of me and our church,” he says to Rimney. “Despite of what you may think of me.” “You’re in my prayers, too,” says Rimney. “I’m always praying you stop being so sanctimonious and miraculously get less full of shit.” Giff leaves, not doubling back this time. Rimney hasn’t liked Giff since the day he suggested that Rimney could cure Mrs. Rimney if only he’d elevate his prayerfulness. “All right,” Rimney says. “Who called him?” Mrs. Gregg bursts into tears and runs to the ladies’. “I don’t get why all the drama,” says Rimney. “Hello, the base is closing in six months,” says Jonkins. “Older individuals like Mrs. G. are less amenable to quick abrupt changes,” says Verblin. When Closure was announced, I found Mrs. G. crying in the Outer Hall. What about Little Bill? she said. Little Bill had just bought a house. What about Amber, pregnant with twins, and her husband, Goose, drunk every night at the Twit? What about Nancy and Vendra? What about Jonkins and Al? There’s not a job to be had in town, she said. Where are all these sweet people supposed to go? I’ve sent out more than thirty résumés, been store to store, chatted up Dad’s old friends. Even our grocery’s half-closed. What used to be Produce is walled off with plywood. On the plywood is a sign: “If We Don’t Have It, Sorry.” CommComm’s been offered a group transfer to naivac Omaha. But Mom and Dad aren’t allowed into the yard, much less to Omaha. And when I’m not around they get agitated. I went to Albany last March for a seminar and they basically trashed the place. Which couldn’t have been easy. To even disturb a drape for them is a big deal. I walked in and Mom was trying to tip over the coffee table by flying through it on her knees and Dad was inside the couch, trying to weaken the springs via repetitive fast spinning. They didn’t mean to but were compelled. Even as they were flying/spinning they were apologizing profusely. “Plus it really does stink in here,” Little Bill says. “Who all is getting a headache, raise your hand,” says Jonkins. “Oh, all right,” Rimney says, then goes into my cubicle and calls Odors. He asks why they can’t get over immediately. How many odors do they have exactly? Has the entire base suddenly gone smelly? I walk in and he’s not talking into the phone, just tapping it against his leg. He winks at me and asks loudly how Odors would like to try coördinating Community Communications while developing a splitting headache in a room that smells like ass. All afternoon it stinks. At five, Rimney says let’s hope for the best overnight and wear scuba gear in tomorrow, except for Jonkins, who, as far as Jonkins, they probably don’t make scuba gear that humongous. “I cannot believe you just said that,” says Jonkins. “Learn to take a joke,” Rimney says, and slams into his office. I walk out with Jonkins and Mrs. Gregg. The big flag over the Dirksen excavation is snapping in the wind, bright-yellow leaves zipping past as if weighted. “I hate him,” says Jonkins. “I feel so bad for his wife,” says Mrs. Gregg. “First you have to live with him, then you have a stroke?” says Jonkins. “And then you still have to live with him?” says Mrs. Gregg. The Dirksen Center for Terror is the town’s great hope. If transferred to the Dirksen, you keep your benefits and years accrued and your salary goes up, because you’re Homeland Security instead of Air Force. We’ve all submitted our Requests for Transfer and our Self-Assessment Worksheets and now we’re just waiting to hear. Except Rimney. Rimney heard right away. Rimney knows somebody who knows somebody. He was immediately certified Highly Proficient and is Dirksen-bound, which, possibly, is another reason everybody hates him. My feeling is, good for him. If he went to Omaha, imagine the work. He and Val have a routine here, contacts, a special van, a custom mechanical bed. Imagine having to pick up and start over somewhere else. “Home, home, home,” says Mrs. Gregg. “pids, pids, pids,” I say. “Oh, you poor thing,” says Mrs. Gregg. “If I had to stand up in front of all those people,” says Jonkins, “I’d put a bullet in my head.” Then there’s a long silence. “Shit, man, sorry,” he says to me. The Farragut’s full. I admit, concede, explain, and pledge. During the Q. & A., somebody says if the base is closing, why spend big bucks on a Beaver Habitat? I say because the Air Force is committed to insuring that, postClosure, all Air Force sites remain environmentally viable, prioritizing both species health and a diverse life-form mix. Afterward Rimney’s back by the snacks. He says is there anything I can’t pids? I say probably not. I’ve pidsed sexual-harassment cases, a cracked hazardous-waste incinerator, half a dozen jet-fuel spills. I pidsed it when General Lemaster admitted being gay, retracted his admission, then retracted his retraction, all in the same day, before vanishing for a week with one of his high-school daughter’s girlfriends. “You might have noticed earlier that I was not actually calling Odors,” Rimney says. “I did notice that,” I say. “Thing I like about you, you’re a guy who understands life gets complicated,” he says. “Got a minute? I need to show you something.” I follow him back to CommComm. Which still stinks. I follow him into the copier closet, which stinks even worse. In the closet is something big, in bubble wrap. “Note to self,” he says. “Bubble wrap? Not smell-preventing.” He slits open the bubble wrap. Inside is this giant dirt clod. Sticking out of the clod is a shoe. In the shoe is a foot, a rotted foot, in a rotted sock. “I don’t get it,” I say. “Found down in the Dirksen excavation,” he says. “Thought I could stash them in here a few days, but phew. Can you believe it?” He slits open a second bubble-wrap package. There’s another guy, not enclodded, cringed up, in shredded pants, looking like he’s been dipped in mustard. This one’s small, like a jockey. “They look old-timey to me,” Rimney says. They do look old-timey. Their shoes are big crude shoes with big crude nails. “So you see our issue,” he says. “Dirksen-wise.” I don’t. But then I do. The Racquetball Facility was scrapped due to someone found an Oneida nose-ring portion on the site. Likewise the proposed Motor Pool Improvement, on account of a shard of Colonial crockery. If a pottery shard or partial nose ring can scrap a project, think what a couple of Potentially Historical corpses/mummies will do. “Who else knows?” I say. “The contractor,” Rimney says. “Rick Granis. You know Rick?” I’ve known Rick since kindergarten. I remember how mad he’d get if anyone called his blanket anything but his binkie. Now he’s got an Escalade and a summer house on Otissic Lake. “But Rick’s cool with it,” he says. “He’ll do whatever.” He shows me Rick’s Daily Historical-Resource Assessment Worksheet. Under “Non-Historical Detritus,” Rick’s written, “Two contemp soda bottles, one contemp flange.” Under “Evidence of Pre-Existing Historical/Cultural Presence,” he’s written, “Not that I know of.” Rimney says that a guy like me, master of the public-presentation aspect, could be a great fit at the Dirksen. As I may know, he knows somebody who knows somebody. Do I find the idea of Terror work at all compelling? I say sure, yes, of course. He says, thing is, they’re just bodies. The earth is full of bodies. Under every building in the world, if you dig deep enough, is probably a body. From the looks of it, someone just dumped these poor guys into a mass grave. They’re not dressed up, no coffins, no dusty flower remains, no prayer cards. I say I’m not sure I totally follow. He says he’s thinking a respectful reburial, somewhere they won’t be found, that won’t fuck up the Dirksen. “And tell the truth,” he says, “I could use some help.” I think of Tape 4, “Living the Now.” What is the Now Situation? How can I pull the pearl from the burning oyster? How can the “drowning boy” be saved? I do an Actual Harm Analysis. Who would a reburial hurt? The mummy guys? They’re past hurt. Who would it help? Rimney, Val Rimney, all future Dirksen employees. Me. Mom, Dad. Dad worked thirty years at Gallup Chain, with his dad. Then they discontinued Automotive. Only Bike remained. A week after his layoff, Grandpa died. Day of the wake, Dad got laid off too. Month later, we found out Jean was sick. Jean was my sister, who died at eight. Her last wish was Disneyland. But money was tight. Toward the end, Dad borrowed money from Leo, the brother he hated. But Jean was too sick to travel. So Dad had an Army friend from Barstow film all of Disney on a Super-8. The guy walked the whole place. Jean watched it and watched it. Dad was one of these auto-optimists. To hear him tell it, we’d won an incredible last-minute victory. Hadn’t we? Wasn’t it something, that we could give Jeanie such a wonderful opportunity? But Jean had been distilled down to like pure honesty. “I do wish I could have gone, though,” she said. “Well, we practically did,” Dad said, looking panicked. “No, but I wish we really did,” she said. After Jean died, we kept her room intact, did a birthday thing for her every year, started constantly expecting the worst. I’d come home from a high-school party and Mom would be sitting there with her rosary, mumbling, praying for my safe return. Even a dropped shopping bag, a broken jar of Prego, would send them into a funk, like: Doom, doom, of course, isn’t this the way it always goes for us? Eight years later came the night of the Latvians. So a little decent luck for Mom and Dad doesn’t seem like too much to ask. “About this job thing,” I say. “I will absolutely make it happen,” he says. The way we do it is we carry them one at a time out to his special van. He’s got a lift in there for Val. Not that we need the lift. These guys are super-light. Then we drive out to the forest behind Missions. We dig a hole, which is not easy, due to roots. I go in, he hands them down very gentle. They’re so stiff and dry it’s hard to believe they can still smell. We backfill, kick some leaves around, drag over a small fallen tree. “You O.K.?” he says. “You look a little freaked.” I ask should we maybe say a prayer. “Go ahead,” he says. “My feeling is, these guys have been gone so long they’re either with Him or not. If there even is a Him. Might be real, might not. To me? What’s real? Val. When I get home tonight, there she’ll be, waiting. Hasn’t eaten yet, needs her bath. Been by herself the whole day. That, to me? Is real.” I say a prayer, lift my head when done. “I thank you, Val thanks you,” he says. In the van, I do a Bad Feelings Acknowledgment re the reburial. I visualize my Useless Guilt as a pack of black dogs. I open the gate, throw out the Acknowledgment Meat. Pursuing the Meat, the black dogs disappear over a cliff, turning into crows (i.e., Neutral/Non-Guilty Energy), which then fly away, feeling Assuaged. Back at CommComm, we wash off the shovels, Pine-Sol the copier closet, throw open the windows, check e-mail while the place airs out. Next morning, the stink is gone. The office just smells massively like Pine-Sol. Giff comes in around eleven, big bandage on his humongous underchin. “Hey, smells super in here today,” he says. “Praise the Lord for that, right? And all things.” “What happened to your chin?” says Rimney. “Zonk it on a pew while speaking in tongues?” “We don’t speak in tongues,” says Giff. “I was just shaving.” “Interesting,” Rimney says. “Goodbye.” “Not goodbye,” says Giff. “I have to do my Situational Follow-Up. What in your view is the reason for the discontinued nature of that crappo smell you all previously had?” “A miracle,” says Rimney. “Christ came down with some Pine-Sol.” “I don’t really go for that kind of talk,” says Giff. “Why not pray I stop?” says Rimney. “See if it works.” “Let me tell you a like parable,” Giff says. “This one girl in our church? Had this like perma-smile? Due to something? And her husband, who was non-church, was always having to explain that she wasn’t really super-happy, it was just her malady. It was like the happier she looked, the madder he got. Then he came to our church, guess what happened?” “She was miraculously cured and he was miraculously suddenly not angry,” says Rimney. “God reached down and fixed them both, while all over the world people who didn’t come to your church remained in misery, weeping.” “Well, no,” says Giff. “And that’s not technically a parable,” says Verblin. “See, but you’re what happens when man stays merely on his own plane,” says Giff. “Man is made bitter. Look, I’m not claiming I’m not human and don’t struggle. Heck, I’m as human as you. Only I struggle, when I struggle, with the help of Him that knows no struggle. Which is why sometimes I maybe seem so composed or, you might say, together. Everyone in our church has that same calm. It’s not just me. It’s just Him, is how we say it.” “How calm would you stay if I broke your neck?” says Rimney. “Ron, honestly,” Jonkins says. “Quiet, Tim,” Rimney says to Jonkins. “If we listen closely, we may hear the call of the North American extremist loony.” “Maybe you’re the extremist due to you think you somehow created your own self,” says Giff. “Enough, this is a place of business,” says Rimney. Then Milton Gelton comes in. Gelton’s a GS-5 in Manual Site Aesthetics Improvement. He roams the base picking up trash with a sharp stick. When he finds a dead animal, he calls Animals. When he finds a car battery, he calls Environmental. “Want to see something freaky?” he says, holding out his bucket. “Found behind Missions?” In the bucket is a yellow-black human hand. “Is that a real actual hand of someone?” says Amber. “At first I thought glove,” Gelton says. “But no. See? No hand-hole. Just solid.” He pokes the hand with a pen to demonstrate the absence of a hand-hole. “You know what else I’m noting as weird?” Giff says. “In terms of that former smell? I can all of a sudden smell it again.” He sniffs his way down to the bucket. “Yoinks, similar,” he says. “I doubt this is a Safety issue,” says Rimney. “I disagree,” says Giff. “This hand seems like it might be the key to our Possible Source of your Negative Odor. Milton, can you show me the exact locale where you found this at?” Out they go. Rimney calls me in. How the hell did we drop that fucker? Jesus, what else did we drop? This is not funny, he says, do I realize we could go to jail for this? We knowingly altered a Probable Historical Site. At the very least, we’ll catch hell in the press. As for the Dirksen, this gets out, goodbye Dirksen. I eat lunch in the Eating Area. Little Bill’s telling about his trip to Omaha. He stayed at a MinTel. The rooms are closet-size. They like slide you in. You’re allowed two slide-outs a night. After that it’s three dollars a slide-out. Rimney comes out, says he’s got to run home. Val’s having leg cramps. When she has leg cramps, the only thing that works is hot washrags. He’s got a special pasta pot and two sets of washrags, one blue, one white. One set goes on her legs, while the other set heats. With Rimney gone, discipline erodes. Out the window I see Verblin sort of mincing to his car. A yardstick slides out of his pants. When he stoops to get the yardstick, a print cartridge drops out of his coat. When he bends to pick up the cartridge, his hat falls off, revealing a box of staples. At three, Ms. Durrell from Environmental calls. Do we have any more of those dioxin coloring books? Do I know what she means? It’s not a new spill, just reawakened concern over an old spill. I know what she means. She means “Donnie Dioxin: Badly Misunderstood But Actually Quite Useful Under Correct Usage Conditions.” I’m in Storage looking for the books when my cell rings. “Glad I caught you,” Rimney says stiffly. “Can you come out to Missions? I swung by on the way back and, boy, oh boy, did Elliot ever find something amazing.” “Is he standing right there?” I say. “O.K., see you soon,” he says, and hangs up. I park by the Sputnik-era jet-on-apedestal. The fake pilot’s head is facing backward and a twig’s been driven up his nose. Across the fuselage some kid’s painted, “This thing looks like my pennis if my pennis has wings.” It starts to flurry. Giff’s been at the grave with a shovel. So far, it’s just the top of the jockey’s head sticking out, and part of the enclodded guy’s foot. “Wow,” I say. “Wow is correct,” Rimney says. “Thanks be to Scouts,” Giff says. “See? Footprints galore. Plus tire tracks. To me? It’s like a mystery or one of those deals where there’s more than meeting the eyes. Because where did these fellows come from? Who put them here? Why did your office smell so bad, in an off way similar to that gross way that hand smelled? In my logic? I ask, Where locally is somewhere deep that’s recently been unearthed or dug into? What I realized? The Dirksen. That is deep, that is new. What do you think? I’ll get with Historical tomorrow, see what used to be where the Dirksen is at now.” I helped Rimney get Val home from the hospital after the stroke, watched the two of them burst into tears at the sight of her mechanical bed. He looks worse than that now. “Fuck it. I’m going to tell him, trust him. What do you think?” he says. My feeling is no, no, no. Giff’s not exactly the King of Sense of Humor. Last year, I was the only non-church person at his Christmas party. The big issue was, somebody on Giff’s wife’s side had sent their baby a stuffed DevilChild from Hell from the cartoon “HellHood.” The DevilChild starts each episode as a kindly angel with a lisp. Then something makes him mad and he morphs into a demon and starts speaking with an Eastern European accent while running around stabbing uptight people in the butt with a red-hot prod. “As for me and my house, this little guy has no place here,” Giff had said. “Although Cyndi apparently feels otherwise.” Cyndi I would describe as pretty but flinchy. “Andy doesn’t see it as the Devil,” she said. “He just likes it.” “Well, I do see it as the Devil,” Giff said. “And I don’t like it. And here in this house a certain book tells us the role of the father/husband. Am I right?” “I guess so,” she said. “You guessing so, like Pastor Mike says, is sympromatic of your having an imperfect understanding of what the Lord has in mind for our family, though,” he said. “Right? Right, Pastor Mike?” “Well, it’s certainly true that a family can only have one head,” said a guy in a Snoopy sweater who I guessed was Pastor Mike. “O.K., tough guy,” Cyndi said to Giff, and stomped off, ringing the tree ornaments. I can see Giff’s wheels turning. Or trying to. He’s not the brightest. I once watched him spend ten minutes trying to make a copy on a copier in the Outer Hall which was unplugged and ready for Disposal. “Wait, are you saying you guys did this?” he says. Rimney says Giff has a wife, Giff has a baby—would a transfer to the Dirksen be of interest? Maybe Giff’s aware that he, Rimney, knows somebody who knows somebody? “Oh, my gosh, you guys did do it,” Giff says. He lets the shovel fall and walks toward the woods, as if so shocked he has to seek relief in the beauty of nature. Out in the woods are three crushed toilets. Every tenth bush or so has a red tag on it, I have no idea why. “All’s I can say is wow,” Giff says. “They’re dead, man,” Rimney says. “What do you care?” “Yes, but who was it shaped these fellows?” says Giff. “You? Me? Look, I’m going to speak frank. I think I see what’s going on here. Both you guys took recent hard hits. One had a wife with a stroke, the other a great tragic loss of their parents. So you got confused, made a bad call. But He redeemeth, if only we open our hearts. Know how I know? It happened to me. I also took a hard hit this year. Because guess what? In terms of my wife? I’m just going to say it. Our baby is not my baby. Cyndi had a slipup with this friend of ours, Kyle. I found out just before Christmas, which was why I was such a fart at our party. That put me in a total funk—we were like match and gas. I was so mad there was a darkness upon me. Poor thing had bruises all up her arms, due to I started pinching her. In her sleep, or sometimes I would get so mad and just come up quick and do it. Then, January tenth, I’d had enough, and I prayed, I said, ‘Lord, I am way too small, please take me up into You, I don’t want to do this anymore.’ And He did it. I dropped as if shot. And when I woke? My heart was changed. All glory goes to Him. I mean, it was a literal release in my chest. All my hate about the baby was gone and all of a sudden Andy was just my son for real.” “Nice story,” says Rimney. “It’s not a story. It happened to me for real in my life,” says Giff. “Point is? I had it in me to grow. We all do! I’m not all good, but there’s a good part of me. My fire may be tiny, but it’s a fire just the same. See what I mean? Same like you. Do you know that good part? Have you met it, that part of you that is all about Truth, that is called, in how we would say it, your Christ-portion? My Christ-portion knew that pinching was wrong. How does your Christ-portion feel about this sneaky burial thingy? I mean honestly. In a perfect world, is that what you would have chose to do?” This catches me a little off guard. “Is this where I go into a seizure and you heal me by stroking my dick?” Rimney says. Giff blinks at this, turns to me. “Think these things up in your heart,” he says softly. “Treasure them around. See what it is. Then be in touch, come to our church, if you want. I am hopeful that you will come to your Truth.” Suddenly my eyes tear up. And I don’t even know why. “This is about my wife, jackass,” says Rimney. “ ‘Do what’s right, come what may,’ ” Giff says. “That’s what it says on all our softball sweatshirts, and I believe it. And on the back? ‘Say no thanks to Mr. Mere Expedience.’ Good words for you, friend.” Rimney’s big. Once when mad he smacked the overhang on the way to Vending and there’s still a handprint up there. Once he picked up one end of the photocopier so Mrs. Gregg could find her earring, and a call came in and he had this big long conversation with Benefits while still holding up the copier. “Cross me on this, you’ll regret it,” he says. “Get thee behind me,” says Giff. So, a little tense. My phone rings. Ms. Durrell again. She’s got a small vocal outraged group coming at four to eat her alive. Where the hell am I? Those dioxin books? Had something to do with a donkey, “Donkey Dioxin, Who Got the Job Done”? Or it was possibly an ape or possum or some such shit? She remembers a scene at the end with some grateful villagers, where the ape/possum/donkey/whatever gave the kids a ride, and also the thing came with a CD? “Go,” Rimney says. “Elliot and I will work this out.” By the time I get the books out of Storage and over to Environmental it’s after five. I clock out, race home through our wincing little town. Some drunks outside the Twit are heaving slushballs up at the laughing neon Twit. Blockbuster has a new program of identifying all videos as either Artsy or Regular. Two beautiful girls in heels struggle down to the banks of the Ottowattamie, holding each other up. Why are they going down there? It’s dusk and that part of the river’s just mud and an old barge. I wish I could ask them but I don’t have time. When I’m late Mom and Dad race around shouting, “Where? Where? Where?” It always ends in this bitter mutual crying. It’s just one of their things. Like when it rains, they go up to the ceiling and lie there facing up. Like when feeling affectionate, they run full speed toward each other and pass through, moaning/laughing. The night of the Latvians I was out with Cleo from Vehicles. We went parking, watched some visiting Warthogs practice their night-firing. Things heated up. She had a room on the side of a house, wobbly wooden stairs leading up. Did I call, say I’d be late, say I might not be back at all? No, I did not. Next morning I came home, found the house taped off. For the body locations, the cops didn’t use chalk. There was just a piece of loose-leaf on the stairs labelled “Deceased Female” and one on the kitchen floor labelled “Deceased Male.” I tell myself, If I’d been home, I’d be dead, too. The Latvians had guns. They came in quick, on crack, so whacked out they forgot to even steal anything. Still. Mom’s sciatica was acting up. She’d just had two teeth pulled. At the end, on the steps, on her back, she kept calling my name, as in, Where is he? Did they get him too? Next day, on the landing, I found the little cotton swab the dentist had left in her mouth. So if they want me home right after work I’m home right after work. They’re standing at the kitchen window, looking out at the old ballbearing plant. All my childhood, discarded imperfect ball bearings rolled down the hill into our yard. When the plant closed, a lathe came sliding down, like a foot a day, until it hit an oak. “Snowing like a mother,” Dad says. “Pretty, but we can’t go out,” says Mom. “Too old, I guess,” Dad says sadly. “Or something,” says Mom. I set three places. They spend the whole dinner, as usual, trying to pick up their forks. Afterward they crowd under the floor lamp, the best part of their night. When they stand in direct heat, it doesn’t make them warmer, just makes them vividly remember their childhoods. “Smell of melted caramel,” Mom says. “The way I felt first time I seen a Dodger uniform in color,” says Dad. Dad asks me to turn up the dimmer. I do, and the info starts coming too fast for grammar. “Working with beets purple hands Mother finds that funny,” says Mom. “Noting my boner against ticking car, Mr. Klemm gives look of you-are-rubbing-your-boner, mixed sense of shame/pride, rained so hard flooded gutters, rat wound up in the dog bowl,” says Dad. They step out of the light, shake it off. “He’s always talking about boners,” says Mom. “Having a boner is a great privilege,” says Dad. “You had your share,” says Mom. “I should say so,” says Dad. “And will continue to, I hope, until the day I die.” Having said “die,” Dad blinks. Whenever we see a murder on TV, they cover their eyes. Whenever a car backfires, I have to coax them out from under the couch. Once a bird died on the sill and they spent the entire day in the pantry. “Until the day you die,” Mom says, as if trying to figure out what the words mean. Before they can ask any questions, I go outside and shovel. From all over town comes the sound of snowplows, the scraping plus the beeping they do when reversing. The moon’s up, full, with halo. My phone rings in my parka pocket. “We have a situation,” Rimney says. “Can you step outside?” “I am outside,” I say. “Oh, there you are,” he says. The special van’s coming slowly up the street. “New plan,” he says, still on the phone, parking now. “What’s done is done. We can save the Dirksen or lose it. Minimize the damage or maximize.” He gets out, leads me around to the sliding door. You didn’t, I think. You did not dig those poor guys up again. Does he think Historical is stupid? Does he think Historical, getting a report of mummies, finding only a recently filled hole, is going to think, Oh, Giff, very funny, you crack us up? “Not the mummies,” I say. “I wish,” he says, and throws open the door. Lying there is Giff, fingers clenched like he’s trying to cling to a ledge, poor pink glasses hanging off one ear. I take a step back, trip on the curb, sit in a drift. “We took a walk, things got out of hand,” he says. “Shit, shit, shit. I tried to reason with him, but he started giving me all his Christian crap. Something snapped, honestly. It just got away from me. You’ve probably had that happen?” “You killed him?” I say. “An unfortunate thing transpired, after which he died, yes,” Rimney says. Thrown in there with Giff is a big rock, partly wrapped in bloody paper towels. I ask did he call the police. He says if he planned on calling the police, would he have thrown Giff in back of the freaking van? He says we’ve got to think pragmatic. He did it, he fucked up, he knows that. He’ll be paying for it the rest of his life, but no way is Val paying for it. If he goes to jail, what happens to Val? A state home? No, no, no, he says. Dead is dead, he can’t change that. Why kill Val as well? “What do we do with this guy?” he says. “Think, think.” “We?” I say. “You.” “Oh God, oh shit,” he says. “I can’t believe I killed somebody. Me, I did it. Jesus, wow. O.K. O.K.” Snow’s blowing in over Giff, melting on his glasses, clumping up between his pants and bare leg. “You know Val, you like Val, right?” Rimney says. I do like Val. I remember her at Mom and Dad’s funeral, in her wheelchair. She had Rimney lift one of her hands to my arm, did this sad little pat pat pat. “Because here’s the thing,” Rimney says. “Dirksen-wise? You’re all set. I submitted my rec. It’s in the system. Right? Why not take it? Prosper, get a little something for yourself, find a wife, make some babies. The world’s shit on you enough, right? You did not do this, I did. I shouldn’t have come here. How about pretend I didn’t?” I stand up, start to do a Moral Benefit Eval, then think, No, no way, do not even think about doing that stupid shit now. The bandage on Giff’s underchin flips up, showing his shaving scar. “Because who was he?” says Rimney. “Who was he really? Was he worth a Val? Was he even a person? He, to me, was just a dumb-idea factory. That’s it.” Poor Giff, I think. Poor Giff’s wife, poor Giff’s baby. Poor Val. Poor everybody. “Don’t fuck me on this,” Rimney says. “Are you going to fuck me on this? You are, aren’t you? Fine. Fine, then.” He turns away, slams the van door shut, emits this weird little throat-sound, like he can’t live with what he’s done and would like to end it all, only can’t, because ending it all would make him even more of a shit. “I feel I’m in a nightmare,” he says. Then he crashes the Giff-rock into my head. I can’t believe it. Down I go. He swung so hard he’s sitting down too. For a second we both sit there, like playing cards or something. I push off against his face, crawl across the yard, get inside, bolt the door. “I don’t like that,” says Dad, all frantic. “I did not like seeing that.” “People should not,” Mom says. “That is not a proper way.” When terrified, they do this thing where they flicker from Point A to Point B with no interim movement. Mom’s in the foyer, then in the kitchen, then at the top of the stairs. “You better get to the hospital,” Dad says. “Take this poor kid with you,” Mom says. “He just suddenly showed up,” Dad says. Somebody’s on the couch. It takes me a second to recognize him. Giff. Or something like Giff: fish-pale, naked, bloody dent in his head, squinting, holding his glasses in one hand. “Whoa,” he says. “Is this ever not how I expected it would be like.” “What what would be like?” says Dad. “Death and all?” he says. Dad flickers on and off: smiling in his chair, running in place, kneeling near the magazine rack. “You ain’t dead, pal, you’re just naked,” says Dad. “Naked, plus somebody blammed you in the head,” says Mom. “Do they not know?” Giff says. I give him a look, like, Please don’t. We’re just enjoying a little extra time. I’m listening to their childhood stories, playing records from their courtship days, staring at them when they’re not looking, telling them how good they were with me and Jean, how safe we always felt. “Don’t you love them?” Giff says. I remember them outside the funeral home the day we buried Jean, Mom holding Dad up, Dad trying to sit on a hydrant, wearing his lapel button, his lapel photo-button of little smiling Jean. “Then better tell them,” Giff says. “Before it’s too late. Because watch.” He stands, kind of shaky, hobbles over, breathes in my face. Turns out when the recently dead breathe in your face they show you the future. I see Mom and Dad trapped here forever, reënacting their deaths night after night, more agitated every year, finally to the point of insanity, until, in their insanity, all they can do is rip continually at each other’s flesh, like angry birds, for all eternity. I tell them. “Very funny,” says Mom. “Cut it out,” Dad says. “We’re a little sad sometimes,” says Mom. “But we definitely ain’t dead.” “Are we?” Dad says. Then they get quiet. “Holy crap,” Dad says. Suddenly they seem to be hearing something from far away. “Jeez, that’s better,” Dad says. “Feels super,” Mom says. “Like you had a terrible crick and then it went away,” Dad says. “Like your dirty dress you had on for the big party all of a sudden got clean,” says Mom. They smile, step through the wall, vanish in two little sudden blurps of light. Giff’s pale and bent, glowing/shimmering, taller than in life, a weird breeze in his hair that seems to be coming from many directions at once. “There is a glory, but not like how I thought,” he says. “I had it all wrong. Mostly wrong. Like my mind was this little basket, big flood pouring in, but all I got was this hint of greater water?” “You were always a nice person,” I say. “No, I was not,” he says. “Forced my little mini-views down everybody’s throat. Pinched my wife! And now it’s so sad. Because know what he did? Rimney? Typed her a note, like it was from me, saying I was leaving, due to I didn’t love her, due to that Kyle thing. But that is so not true! I loved her all through that. But now, rest of her life, she’s going to be thinking that of me, that I left her and the baby, when we were just getting over that pinching thing.” His eyes fill with tears and his hair stops blowing and he crushes his pink glasses in his hand. “Go see her,” I say. “Tell her the truth.” “Can’t,” he says. “You just get one.” “One what?” I say. “Visitation or whatever?” he says. I think, So why’d you come here? He just smiles, kind of sad. Then the front window implodes and Rimney climbs through with a tire iron. “It’s going to happen now,” Giff says. And it does. It takes two swings. It doesn’t hurt, really, but it’s scary, because it’s happening to me, me, me, me, the good boy in school, the boy who felt lilacs were his special flower, the boy who, when poor Jean was going, used to sneak off to cry in the closet. As I go, there’s an explosion of what I can only call truth/energy flood. I can’t exactly convey it, because you’re still in that living/limited state, so lucky/unlucky, capable of smelling rain, rubbing palm against palm, having some new recently met someone suddenly brighten upon seeing you. Rimney staggers to the door, unbolts it, stands looking out. I pass through him and see that even now all his thoughts are of Val, desperate loving frightened thoughts of how best to keep her safe. Giff and I cross the yard hand in hand, although like fifteen feet apart. Where are we going? I have no idea. But we’re going there fast, so fast we’re basically skimming along Trowman Street, getting simultaneously bigger/lighter, and then we’re flying, over Kmart/Costco Plaza, over the width of Wand Lake, over the entire hilly area north of town. Below us now is Giff’s house: snow on the roof, all the lights on, pond behind it, moon in the pond. Giff says/thinks, Will you? And I say/think, I will. She’s at the table doing bills, red-eyed, the note at her feet, on the floor. She sees me and drops her pen. Am I naked, am I pale, is my hair blowing? Yes and yes and yes. I put one bare foot on the note. A lie, I say. Elliot’s dead, sends his love. Rimney did it. Rimney. Say it. Rimney, she says. That’s all the chance I get. The thing that keeps us flying sucks me out of the house. But as I go I see her face. Rejoining Giff on high I show him her face. He is glad, and now can go. We both can go. We go. Snow passes through us, gulls pass through us. Tens of towns, hundreds of towns stream by below, and we hear their prayers, grievances, their million signals of loss. Secret doubts shoot up like tracers, we sample them as we fly through: a woman with a too-big nose, a man who hasn’t closed a sale in months, a kid who’s worn the same stained shirt three days straight, two sisters worried about a third who keeps saying she wants to die. All this time we grow in size, in love, the distinction between Giff and me diminishing, and my last thought before we join something I can only describe as Nothing-Is-Excluded is, Giff, Giff, please explain, what made you come back for me? He doesn’t have to speak, I just know, his math emanating from inside me now: Not coming back, he would only have saved himself. Coming back, he saved Mom, Dad, me. Going to see Cyndi, I saved him. And, in this way, more were freed. That is why I came back. I was wrong in life, limited, shrank everything down to my size, and yet, in the end, there was something light-craving within me, which sent me back, and saved me. 
Awaiting Orders Sergeant Morse was pulling night duty in the orderly room when a woman called, asking for Billy Hart. He told her that Specialist Hart had shipped out for Iraq a week earlier. She said, “Billy Hart? You sure? He never said a word about shipping out.” “I’m sure.” “Well. Sweet Jesus. That’s some news.” “And you are . . . ? If you don’t mind my asking.” “I’m his sister.” “I can give you his e-mail. Hang on, I’ll find it for you.” “That’s O.K. There’s people waiting for the phone. People who don’t know any better than to breathe down other people’s neck.” “It won’t take a minute.” “That’s O.K. He’s gone, right?” “Feel free to call back. Maybe I can help.” “Hah,” she said, and hung up. Sergeant Morse returned to the paperwork he’d been doing, but the talk of Billy Hart had unsettled him. He got up and went to the water cooler and drew himself a glass. He drank it and filled the glass again and stood by the door. The night was sullenly hot and still: just past eleven, the barracks quiet, only a few windows glowing in the haze. A meaty gray moth kept thumping against the screen. Morse didn’t know Billy Hart well, but he’d had his eye on him. Hart was from the mountains near Asheville and liked to play the hick for the cover it gave him. He was always running a hustle, Hart, engaged elsewhere when there was work to be done but on hand to fleece the new guys at poker or sell rides to town in his Mustang convertible. He was said to be dealing but hadn’t got caught at it. Thought everyone else was dumb—you could see him thinking it, that little smile. He would trip himself up someday, but he’d do fine for now. Plenty of easy pickings over there for the likes of Billy Hart. A good-looking troop, though. Some Indian there, those high cheekbones, deep-set black eyes; beautiful, really, and with that slow, catlike way about him, cool, aloof, almost contemptuous in the languor and ease of his movements. Morse had felt the old pull despite himself, knowing Hart was trouble but always a little taut in his presence, fighting the stubborn drift of his gaze toward Hart’s face, toward that look of secret knowledge playing on his lips. Hart was approachable, Morse felt sure of it, open to whatever might offer both interest and advantage. But Morse kept his distance. He didn’t give advantage, and couldn’t take the gamble of a foolish entanglement—not now, anyway. Morse had spent twenty of his thirty-nine years in the Army. He was not one of those who claimed to love it, but he belonged to it as to a tribe, bound to those around him by lines of unrefusable obligation, love being finally beside the point. He was a soldier, no longer able to imagine himself as a civilian—the formlessness of that life, the endless petty choices to be made. Morse knew that he belonged where he was, yet he had often put himself in danger of scandal and discharge through risky attachments. Just before his tour in Iraq, there’d been the Cuban waiter he met in a restaurant downtown; the waiter turned out to be married, and a gambling addict, and, finally, when Morse broke it off, a blackmailer. Morse would not be blackmailed. He wrote down his commanding officer’s name and telephone number. “Here,” he said, “go on, call him”—and though he didn’t think the man would actually do it, Morse spent the next few weeks inwardly hunched as if against a blow. Then he shipped out and soon came to life again, ready for the next excitement. This turned out to be a young lieutenant who joined Morse’s unit the week Morse arrived. They went through orientation together, and Morse saw that the lieutenant was drawn to him, though the lieutenant himself seemed unsure of his own disposition, even when he surrendered to it—with an urgency only heightened by the nearimpossibility of finding private time and space. In fact, he was just discovering himself, and in the process he suffered fits of self-loathing so cruel and dark that Morse feared he would do himself harm, or turn his rage outward, perhaps onto Morse himself, or bring them both to grief by bawling out a drunken confession to a fatherly colonel in some officers’ bar. It didn’t come to that. The lieutenant had adopted a mangy one-eared cat while they were on patrol; the cat scratched his ankle and the scratch got infected, and instead of going for treatment he played the fool and tried to tough it out and damn near lost his foot. He was sent home on crutches five months into his tour. By then, Morse was so wrung out that he felt not the slightest stirrings of pity—only relief. He had no cause for relief. Not long after returning Stateside, he was called to battalion headquarters for an interview with two smooth, friendly men in civilian clothes who claimed to be congressional aides from the lieutenant’s home district. They said that there was a sensitive matter before their congressman that required closer knowledge of the lieutenant’s service in Iraq—his performance in the field, his dealings with other officers and with the troops who served under him. Their questions looped around conversationally, almost lazily, but returned again and again to the lieutenant’s relations with Morse. Morse gave nothing away, even as he labored to appear open, unguarded. He figured these men for Army narcs, whatever else they said. They let several weeks go by before calling him to another meeting, which they cancelled at the last minute. Morse was still waiting for the next summons. He had often wished that his desires served him better, but in this he supposed he was not unusual—that it was a lucky man indeed whose desires served him well. Yet he had hopes. Over the last few months Morse had become involved with a master sergeant in division intelligence—a calm, scholarly man five years older than he. Though Morse could not yet think of himself as anyone’s “partner,” he had gradually forsaken his room in the N.C.O. quarters to spend nights and weekends at Dixon’s town house off post. The place was stuffed with ancient weapons and masks and chess sets that Dixon had collected during his tours overseas, and at first Morse had felt a sort of nervous awe, as if he were in a museum, but that had passed. Now he liked having these things around him. He was at home there. But Dixon was due to rotate overseas before long, and Morse would soon receive new orders himself, and he knew it would get complicated then. They would have to make certain judgments about each other and about themselves. They would have to decide how much to promise. Where this would leave them Morse didn’t know. But all that was still to come. Billy Hart’s sister called again at midnight, just as Morse was turning over the orderly room to another sergeant. When he picked up and heard her voice, he pointed at the door and the other man smiled and stepped outside. “Would you like the address, then?” Morse asked. “I guess. For all the good it’ll do.” Morse had already looked it up. He read it to her. “Thanks,” she said. “I don’t have a computer, but Sal does.” “Sal?” “Sally Cronin! My cousin.” “You could just go to an Internet café.” “Well, I suppose,” she said skeptically. “Say—what’d you mean, maybe you could help?” “I don’t know, exactly,” Morse said. “You said it, though.” “Yes. And you laughed.” “That wasn’t an actual laugh.” “Ah. Not a laugh.” “More like . . . I don’t know.” Morse waited. “Sorry,” she said. “Look, I’m not asking for help, O.K.? But how come you said it? Just out of curiosity.” “No reason. I didn’t think it out.” “Are you a friend of Billy’s?” “I like Billy.” “Well, it was nice. You know? A real nice thing to say.” After Morse signed out, he drove to the pancake house she’d been calling from. As agreed, she was waiting by the cash register, and when he came through the door in his fatigues he saw her take him in with a sharp measuring glance. She straightened up—a tall woman, nearly as tall as Morse himself, with close-cut black hair and a long, tired-looking face, darkly freckled under the eyes. Her eyes were black, but otherwise she looked nothing like Hart, nothing at all, and Morse was thrown by the sudden disappointment he felt and the impulse to escape. She stepped toward him, head cocked to one side, as if making a guess about him. Her eyebrows were dark and heavy. She wore a sleeveless red blouse and hugged her freckled arms against the chill of the air-conditioning. “So should I call you Sergeant?” she said. “Owen.” “Sergeant Owen.” “Just Owen.” “Just Owen,” she repeated. She offered him her hand. It was dry and rough. “Julianne. We’re over in the corner.” She led him to a booth by the big window looking out on the parking lot. A fat-faced boy, maybe seven or eight, sat drawing a picture on the back of a placemat among the congealed remains of eggs and waffles and sausages. Holding the crayon like a spike, he raised his head as Morse slid onto the bench across from him. He had the same fierce brows as the woman. He gave Morse a long, unblinking look, then he sucked in his lower lip and returned to his work. “Say hello, Charlie.” He went on coloring for a time. Then he said, “Howdy.” “Won’t say hello, this one. Says howdy now. Don’t know where he got it.” “That’s all right. Howdy back at you, Charlie.” “You look like a frog,” the boy said. He dropped the crayon and picked up another from the clutter on the table. “Charlie!” she said. “Use your manners,” she added, mildly, beckoning to a waitress pouring coffee at the neighboring table. “It’s O.K.,” Morse said. He figured he had it coming. Not because he looked like a frog—though he was all at once conscious of his wide mouth—but because he’d sucked up to the boy. Howdy back at you! “What is wrong with that woman?” Julianne said as the waitress gazed dully around the room. Then Julianne caught her eye and she came slowly over to their table and refilled Julianne’s cup. “That’s some picture you’re making,” the waitress said. “What is it?” The boy ignored her. “You’ve got yourself quite the little artist there,” she said to Morse, then moved dreamily away. Julianne poured a long stream of sugar into her coffee. “Charlie your son?” She turned and looked speculatively at the boy. “No.” “You’re not my mom,” the boy murmured. “Didn’t I just say that?” She stroked his round cheek with the back of her hand. “Draw your picture, nosy. Kids?” she said to Morse. “Not yet.” Morse watched the boy smear blue lines across the placemat, wielding the crayon as if out of grim duty. “You aren’t missing anything.” “Oh, I think I probably am.” “Nothing but back talk and mess,” she said. “Charlie’s Billy’s. Billy and Dina’s.” Morse would never have guessed it, to look at the boy. “I didn’t know Hart had a son,” he said, and hoped she hadn’t heard the note of complaint that was all too clear and strange to him. “Neither does he, the way he acts. Him and Dina both.” Dina, she said, was off doing another round of rehab in Raleigh—her second. Julianne and Bella (Julianne’s mother, Morse gathered) had been looking after Charlie, but they didn’t get along, and after the last blowup Bella had taken off for Florida with a boyfriend, putting Julianne in a bind. She drove a school bus during the year and worked summers cooking at a Girl Scout camp, but with Charlie on her hands and no money for child care she’d had to give up the camp job. So she’d driven down here to try and shake some help out of Billy, enough to get her through until school started, or Bella decided to come home and do her share, fat chance. Morse nodded toward the boy. He didn’t like his hearing all this, if anything could penetrate that concentration, but Julianne went on as if she hadn’t noticed. Her voice was low, growly, but with a nasal catch in it, like the whine of a saw blade binding. She didn’t have the lazy music that Hart could play so well, but she seemed more truly of the hollows and farms of their home; she spoke of the people there as if Morse must know them, too—as if she had no working conception of the reach of the world beyond. At first, Morse was expecting her to put the bite on him, but she never did. He did not understand what she wanted from him, or why, unprompted, he had offered to come here tonight. “So he’s gone,” she said, finally. “You’re sure.” “Afraid so.” “Well. Good to know my luck’s holding. Wouldn’t want it to get worse.” She leaned back and closed her eyes. “Why didn’t you call first?” “What, and let on I was coming? You don’t know our Billy.” Julianne seemed to fall into a trance then, and Morse soon followed, lulled by the clink of crockery and the voices all around, the soft scratching of the crayon. He didn’t know how long they sat like this. He was roused by the tapping of raindrops against the window, a few fat drops that left oily lines as they slid down the glass. The rain stopped. Then it came again in a rush, sizzling on the asphalt, glazing the cars in the parking lot, pleasant to watch after the long, heavy day. “Rain,” Morse said. Julianne didn’t bother to look. She might have been asleep but for the slight nod she gave him. Morse recognized two men from his company at a table across the room. He watched them until they glanced his way, then he nodded and they nodded back. Money in the bank—confirmed sighting of Sergeant Morse with woman and child. Family. He hated thinking so bitter and cheap a thought, and resented whatever led him to think it. Still, how else could they be seen, the three of them, in a pancake house at this hour? And it wasn’t just their resemblance to a family. No, there was the atmosphere of family here, in the very silence of the table: Julianne with her eyes closed, the boy working away on his picture, Morse himself looking on like any husband and father. “You’re tired,” he said. The tenderness of his own voice surprised him, and her eyes blinked open as if she, too, were surprised. She looked at him with gratitude; and it came to Morse that she had called him back that night just for the reason she gave, because he had spoken kindly to her. “I am tired,” she said. “I am that.” “Look. Julianne. What do you need to tide you over?” “Nothing. Forget all that stuff—I was just blowing off steam.” “I’m not talking about charity, O.K.? Just a loan, that’s all.” “We’ll be fine.” “It’s not like there’s anyone waiting in line for it,” he said, and this was true. Morse’s father and older brother, finally catching on, had gone cold on him years ago. He’d remained close to his mother, but she died just after his return from Iraq. In his new will, Morse named as sole beneficiary the hospice where she’d spent her last weeks. To name Dixon seemed too sudden and meaningful and might draw unwelcome attention, and anyway Dixon had made some sharp investments and was well fixed. “I just can’t,” Julianne said. “But that is so sweet.” “My dad’s a soldier,” the boy said, head still bent over the placemat. “I know,” Morse said. “He’s a good soldier. You should be proud.” Julianne smiled at him, really smiled, for the first time that night. She had been squinting, and holding her mouth in a tight line, then she smiled and looked like someone else. Morse saw that she had beauty, and that her pleasure in him had allowed this beauty to show itself. He was embarrassed. He felt a sense of duplicity that he immediately, even indignantly, suppressed. “I can’t force it on you,” he said. “Suit yourself.” The smile vanished. “I will,” she said, in the same tone he had used, harder than he’d intended. “But I thank you anyhow. Charlie,” she said, “time to go. Get your stuff together.” “I’m not done.” “Finish it tomorrow.” Morse waited while she rolled up the placemat and helped the boy collect his crayons. He noticed the check pinned under the saltshaker and picked it up. “I’ll take that,” she said, and held out her hand in a way that did not permit refusal. Morse stood by awkwardly as Julianne paid at the register, then he walked outside with her and the boy. They stood together under the awning and watched the storm lash the parking lot. Glittering lines of rain fell aslant through the glare of the lights overhead. The surrounding trees tossed wildly, and the wind sent gleaming ripples across the asphalt. Julianne brushed a lock of hair back from the boy’s forehead. “I’m ready. How about you?” “No.” “Well, it ain’t about to quit raining for Charles Drew Hart.” She yawned widely and gave her head a shake. “Nice talking to you,” she said to Morse. “Where will you stay?” “Pickup.” “A pickup? You’re going to sleep in a truck?” “Can’t drive like this.” And in the look she gave him, expectant and mocking, he could see that she knew he would offer her a motel room, and that she was already tasting the satisfaction of turning it down. But that didn’t stop him from trying. “Country proud,” Dixon said when Morse told him the story later that morning. “You should have invited them to stay here. People like that, mountain people, will accept hospitality when they won’t take money. They’re like Arabs. Hospitality has a sacred claim. You don’t refuse to give it and you don’t refuse to take it.” “Never occurred to me,” Morse said, but in truth he’d had the same intuition, standing outside the restaurant with the two of them, wallet in hand. Even as he tried to talk Julianne into taking the money for a room, invoking the seriousness of the storm and the need to get the boy into a safe dry place, he had the sense that if he simply invited her home with him she might indeed say yes. And then what? Dixon waking up and playing host, bearing fresh towels to the guest room, making coffee, teasing the boy—and looking at Morse in that way of his. Its meaning would be clear enough to Julianne. What might she do with such knowledge? Out of shock and disgust, perhaps even feeling herself betrayed, she could ruin them. Morse thought of that but didn’t really fear it. He liked her; he did not think she would act meanly. What he feared, what he could not allow, was for her to see how Dixon looked at him, and then to see that he could not give back what he received. That things between them were unequal, and himself unloving. So that even while offering Julianne the gift of shelter he felt false, mealymouthed, as if he were trying to buy her off; and the unfairness of suffering guilt while pushing his money at her and having his money refused proved too much for Morse. Finally, he told her to sleep in the damned truck then if that was what she wanted. “I don’t want to sleep in the truck,” the boy said. “You’d be a sight happier if you did want to,” Julianne said. “Now come on—ready or not.” “Just don’t try to drive home,” Morse said. She put her hand on the boy’s shoulder and led him out into the parking lot. “You’re too tired!” Morse called after her, but if she answered he couldn’t hear it for the drumming of the rain on the metal awning. They walked on across the asphalt. The wind gusted, driving the rain so hard that Morse had to jump back a step. Julianne took it full in the face and never so much as turned her head. Nor did the boy. Charlie. He was getting something from her, ready or not, walking into the rain as if it weren’t raining at all. 
Long-Distance Client He was at work when it began. We offer a choice of two plans,” Mel told the new programmer on the phone. On the desk, his computer beamed at him, along with Sam and Annie, in their school pictures, his grown son and daughter fixed in first- and third-grade amber. The office was relatively quiet, the open-plan space still cavernous, although Mel was drawing up contracts and issuing I.D.s as fast as he could. A couple of programmers were batting birdies around with badminton racquets, and Mel was finishing the routine medical-benefits conversation when he glanced up from his cubicle to see an electrician grinning at him from a square hole in the ceiling where he’d popped out the acoustic tile. “Yoo-hoo,” the electrician said. Mel bristled. Carpenters didn’t bother him, nor did the badminton or the unpacking. He almost enjoyed the drag and pop of box cutters slicing cardboard, the long rips crisp and promising, like autumn and fresh school supplies. Still, he was stodgy, the oldest employee at isis. He was the entire human-resources department, and he couldn’t conduct business with electricians wisecracking from above. “You can’t go wrong—they’re both terrific,” he explained to the new hire, as he gestured at the cable-dangling electrician to disappear. “And we do offer dental.” He stood up, pulling the receiver with him, but the cord wasn’t long enough and his phone slid off the desk. Too quickly, he turned to scoop it up. A prickle, not unlike an electric shock, raked the left side of his back, an agonizing spasm and a wave of panic. “Hey, what’s wrong, Millstein?” Mel’s twenty-seven-year-old boss, Jonathan, sidled up carrying a cardboard carton a few minutes later. “You look bad.” “Muscle spasm,” Mel gasped. “I’m just trying to walk it off.” “Oh, is that all. I thought somebody died. Have some chips.” Jonathan reached into the carton and pulled out a small bag. “We finally got salt-and-vinegar.” He tossed Mel the packet. Mel tried, but it hurt too much to lift his arm. The bag fell at his feet. Jonathan stared for a moment, almost affronted. Then he laughed. “Here.” He steered Mel toward a hammock strung up on a stand near the bank of windows. “Lie down and chill.” With the cheerful force he employed in all his dealings, he flipped Mel into the net and sauntered off to the seminar room for a meeting. “How will I get out?” Mel called. The question was not rhetorical. Mel had been working for Internet Security Intelligence Systems since its earliest days, six weeks before. He had been an administrative assistant at the university when Jonathan and Aldwin and Orion and Jake incorporated and hired him away. They had just won a competition for their business plan, and were beating off scores of venture capitalists who flocked and flapped and circled back again with more and more money. “Work for us a year and see how you like it,” Jonathan had told Mel. “We’re all students here. You know us already—you see us in the department every day. We’ll pay you more.” “More than what?” Mel had asked. Caution was his intent, but he cringed at his own question; suddenly he sounded conniving and greedy. Jonathan welcomed this thinking, however, and chuckled appreciatively. “More,” he said. “More than whatever you make now. But that’s not really the point.” “The point being?” Mel tried to chuckle, too. “Here’s the thing,” Jonathan said, and he wasn’t laughing at all. Laughing was already out of date. “We’re going to be gazillionaires.” Now, flat on his back in the hammock, staring out at the white February sky, Mel knew isis to be as divinely productive as the winged Egyptian goddess from whom the company took its name. The company had already doubled in size and signed its first major contracts. Jonathan flew almost weekly on secret missions to L.A. and Atlanta, where the first isis cryptographic solutions were being beta tested. Back in Cambridge, Aldwin auditioned the vulture capitalists, probing their financial and intellectual resources. Those investors who could grasp the rudiments of the isis model advanced to further talks with Jonathan; those who could not were summarily rejected. Mel watched in awe as Jonathan brushed off seasoned businessmen twice his age. Just the other morning, Mel had arrived to find four columns of V.C.s’ names scribbled on the office whiteboard under the headings Bozos, Morons, Losers, Sharks. It was 1999. If he lay perfectly still, he felt no pain, but the moment he shifted his weight his muscles seized up again. “Ow, ow, ow,” he moaned, and fell back into the hammock. A birdie drifted overhead and caught in the netting near his feet, and then Orion and Jake were gazing at him where he lay tangled in the hammock’s web: gray slacks, button-down shirt, lace-up shoes, and spectacles, trussed up as if by a giant spider. “Sorry. Were you sleeping?” Orion asked. “I think I’ve thrown my back out,” Mel told them. “Bummer,” Jake said. “How’d you do that?” “I . . . my telephone . . .” They were tall, lanky programmers. From this angle, their arms looked extraordinarily long. He could see the stubble under their chins. Orion wore his blond hair in a ponytail. Jake’s mop fell into his eyes. The two of them seemed to play all day and work all night. They were like wild horses. “Your telephone attacked you, huh?” “Never mind. Help me out.” Gingerly, he sat up in bed the next morning, pivoted, placed his feet on the floor, and stood. He felt somewhat better, but he couldn’t turn without pain. He could move only robotically, in straight planes and lines. “Barbara,” he called to his wife, but she remained absorbed in her prayer book by the window. She was blue-eyed, fair, and soft-featured, easily bruised, a nurse by training, though she hadn’t practiced for twenty years. She’d given up her job to devote herself to the children, who were not overcome with gratitude and had been urging her for years to go back to work, or at least to volunteer somewhere. “You should get a life, Mom,” Annie had suggested at Thanksgiving. Barbara took umbrage at this. “I have a life, thank you very much,” she snapped, and plunged a serving spoon deep into the cranberry sauce. “Nice,” Sam whispered sarcastically to his sister. Of course, the kids had no idea what kind of life their mother was getting herself into. “Good morning,” Mel called out. Barbara lifted one finger and kept praying, swaying slightly in her nightgown and quilted slippers. He sighed, inched his way into the bathroom, showered, dressed, and went down to the kitchen, where he poured himself a lonely bowl of cereal. God had entered the house. Stealthily at first, modestly and quietly, God had crept inside Mel’s split-level. He’d smuggled Himself in inside a loaf of challah. He’d stowed away in the pages of Barbara’s black prayer book, and staked out every doorway in the mezuzahs Barbara had nailed up, each containing a little Hebrew scroll proclaiming His name. Mel darted a look at the mezuzah on the doorframe of the kitchen; it was ceramic, and painted in naïve Middle Eastern fashion with a blue five-fingered hand. The hand itself was decorated with a dark, almost Egyptian-looking eye, which gazed down upon Mel balefully. Stiff and slow, Mel eased himself into his coat. “Goodbye,” he called. He listened for a moment. “I’m heading out.” Then, just as he stepped into the frigid garage to drive to the station, he sensed Barbara coming up behind him, book and reading glasses in hand, still silent so as not to interrupt her prayers, but blowing kisses all the same. He lived in Canaan, almost halfway between Boston and Providence, on Fuller Circle, a small road linking Emerson and Thoreau Streets. The street names lent a literary air to the modest Capes and white ranch houses in the neighborhood, although the only Transcendentalists who had ever taken up residence in the town were the Bialystoker Hasidim, who had set up house on Alcott. These Bialystokers, Rabbi Zylberfenig and his wife and children, had been sent as emissaries from Brooklyn to return the unaffiliated Jews of Canaan to Judaism. Mel shuddered as he drove past the Bialystokers’ low-slung, neatly painted gray ranch. He was a fair-minded man, unprejudiced and respectful toward minorities. He had drafted his company’s declaration: “isis is an equal-opportunity employer. Applicants will receive appropriate consideration regardless of race, color, creed, age, gender, sexual orientation, or country of origin.” Those were his words, and he lived by them. Still, when he saw the little Zylberfenig boys running across the slushy front yard, and screaming in Yiddish, their hair long and curling under black velvet yarmulkes as big as soup bowls, their white shirts untucked and fringes flying, he felt only revulsion and embarrassment, mounting anxiety for his neighborhood, his home, and especially his wife. When it came to these fringe members of his own faith, Mel could not remain calm and rational; he could not respect differences, but sped past, silently screaming. The office was in an uproar when he arrived. Orion had crashed isis 2.0 just hours before deployment. Screen after screen of code flashed before Jake and Orion as they leaned in, debugging furiously. Aldwin was closeted with yet another pair of potential investors, but Jonathan paced, taut and angry, firing off suggestions. “What you should have done—” he said. “Hey, stop back-seat programming,” Orion protested. “Stop fucking with my code,” Jonathan snarled. “You said test the system.” “Yeah, not break the system.” “Well, I guess the system failed the test.” “Could you guys just shut up?” Jake pleaded. There was not a badminton racquet in sight; the other programmers were typing madly in their cubicles, all hands on deck except for a couple of new hires, who were standing by uncertainly. “You should have listened to me the first time,” Jonathan told Orion. “No, you should have listened to me when I said it wasn’t ready,” Orion retorted. “Make it ready.” Jonathan’s voice was deadly quiet. “Welcome,” Mel told the new kids, with perhaps more cheer than the situation warranted. He ushered them to his cubicle for paperwork and laminated clip-on I.D.s, isis fleece vests, and baseball caps. “We’ll get you started on some new machines. And you’ll need desks.” By lunchtime, Jake had found the bug. Aldwin had got rid of the investors, Jonathan was on the phone stalling sys. admins. in Atlanta, Sunnyvale, and L.A., while the work of patching and mending the broken code began. The programmers were frantic, but no longer desperate. Mel circuited the office slowly, trying to walk off the pain that was escalating up his side. “Let me give you the number of my Alexander teacher,” said Danica, the company secretary, from her perch atop a giant exercise ball. “I swear, this guy saved my life when I hurt my hip last year.” “What did he do to you?” Mel asked. “Nothing,” Danica said, bouncing slightly. She was twenty-three, a modern dancer. “That was the most amazing thing about it. He barely even touched me.” “Why don’t you just go see a doctor?” Annie asked when he and Barbara called that weekend. “I did,” Mel said. “He gave me muscle relaxants, and they knocked me out.” “O.K.,” she said, and he could picture his little girl, the psych major, rolling her eyes. “So why don’t you get acupuncture?” “Acupuncture!” Barbara chided Annie gently from the phone in the bedroom. “Your father does not like needles.” “Oh, yeah,” she said, her voice wondering as she remembered this arcane fact from the distant past. “Why don’t you get some exercise?” Sam asked when they finally reached him at Amherst. “That’s probably all it is. You’re sitting around all the time.” “He could walk to the station,” Barbara mused. She had a way of talking about him in the third person to the kids, even when he was there. He was exhausted, but he could not sleep. His back seized up as soon as he lay down. It throbbed as he sat at his desk, and he ended up standing on the train home. He was not in such terrible shape, not at all the couch potato his son supposed. He was a few pounds overweight, but nothing to deserve this. “I think,” Barbara ventured cautiously as they ate dinner at the end of the week, “you might want to talk to Rabbi Zylberfenig.” “Zylberfenig! Because he knows so much about back pain?” “He gives good advice,” Barbara said. Mel looked at her across the white tablecloth. Flickering candles, two loaves of challah, goblets of red wine, a pot roast, and a potato kugel stood between him and his wife. “How old is Rabbi Zylberfenig?” he demanded. “He’s got seven children.” “And what’s that supposed to mean?” “He’s older than we were at his age.” “Barbara, I don’t know what’s wrong with you,” he burst out. “You’re obsessed with these people. It’s a cult. The Bialystokers are taking over your life.” He eased himself to his feet and began to clear the table. “They help me,” she said. Then, in a small voice, “You know I’ve always hated my name.” He looked at her uneasily, unsure where this was going. “Did you know Barbara means ‘barbarian’?” “No,” he said, “I don’t think that’s right. That can’t be true.” “I’d prefer to go by my Hebrew name,” she said, nervous but steadfast. “I’d like to be called Basha. Could you just . . . think about it?” “No! I can’t think about it—” “I realize you don’t like change,” she said. “Why do you say that? I don’t like it because it’s not your name. That’s not you—that is not the woman I married.” “I’m not a barbarian,” she said. He took tiny steps. Holding still, he bore his backache like a hundred-pound weight; one false move and an iron grip took his breath away. He went in for tests; he tried sleeping on the floor; he purchased a new pillow for his bed and carried a special foam wedge cushion with him on the train. He looked as though he had two black eyes, he was so bruised and swollen from his attempts to sleep. One morning, he dragged himself into the office with his dripping umbrella, and Danica said, “All right, I’m calling and making an appointment for you.” “What, with this Alexander person? No, I didn’t like the sound of that.” “I’m sorry, I can’t stand looking at you anymore,” Danica said, dialling. “Can you make it at 8 a.m. Tuesday?” “No, I can’t,” Mel spluttered. “I’d have to take the early train.” “So?” Danica shot back. And she was right. What did it matter when he left in the morning? He was up all night anyway. Bobby Bruce, Alexander Instructor, practiced above New Words in Inman Square. He did not provide directions to his office but allowed his patients to wander around the back of the brown shingled bookstore and up the wooden wheelchair ramp to a rear door unmarked except for the admonition “Push Hard” on a card taped next to the buzzer. The stairs inside were steep, graycarpeted, and creaky. At the top, Mel pushed open a glass door and entered a waiting room with a wood-grain coffee table, a Poland Spring water dispenser, and a futon covered with a midnight- blue print with gold stars and moons. There was not a single magazine to read, and there was no way Mel was sitting on the futon. “Hi.” Bobby had been standing in the doorway to the examining room, studying Mel the whole time. “Hello. Good morning,” Mel replied. He took off his gray wool coat. “How are you?” Bobby said nothing. He was tall, gaunt, and shaggy-haired, like a starving wolf, and he wore an untucked striped shirt and washed-out jeans. He didn’t seem to notice the coat in Mel’s hands. Mel propped it stiffly on the futon. Several shelves’ worth of color-coded manila folders filled the examining room, and Mel was surprised and grateful to see that he was not Bobby’s only patient. There was a long table covered with white paper, as in a doctor’s office, but Bobby did not ask Mel to sit down. There was also a gray metal desk and a folding chair. A large white combination blotter/calendar lay on the desk, along with a black rotary telephone and two photographs, one of a snowy mountain and one of a middle-aged woman with brown hair hanging down in braids on either side of her face. “Is there any paperwork you’d like me to fill out?” “No,” Bobby said. He opened a desk drawer and extracted a new manila folder, then pulled and pulled and finally yanked open the top drawer of the desk to reveal a grubby pencil, three paper clips, and one marble rolling around. He took out the pencil and wrote Mel’s name on the folder. Mel’s eyes widened. He had never seen anyone write so slowly or use such a miserable stub of a pencil without giving up and searching for a pen, a computer, a typewriter. For this he’d taken the early train? “All right.” Empty-handed, Bobby stood before Mel. “Well, what would you like me to do?” Mel asked. “Would you like to see the range of motion I’ve got? Should I explain how I injured myself?” Bobby shook his head. “I figured you’d want to know when the pain started.” “No,” Bobby admitted. “Not particularly.” “What, then?” Mel demanded. “Why don’t you turn toward me,” Bobby said mildly, “and we’ll see if we can make some adjustments.” “I am standing up and facing you,” Mel snapped. “Turn and face me,” Bobby said. “I don’t understand,” said Mel. He was looking Bobby squarely in the face, or, rather, looking up slightly, since Mel was on the short side and Bobby was so tall. “No, you’re not quite centered,” Bobby said, and he touched Mel’s right shoulder with his long fingertips. His touch was as light and diffident as his voice, but he pushed Mel ever so slightly. He touched Mel’s chin, then almost imperceptibly turned Mel’s head. He reached around to run his fingers up Mel’s spine and again touched Mel’s right shoulder. “There you go.” “I feel like I’m leaning to the right now,” Mel said petulantly. “No,” Bobby told him, “you’re straight now.” “I’m definitely leaning to the right.” Bobby nodded. “You’ll feel that way for a while, but the reason is, in fact, you’ve been walking around all this time leaning about two inches to the left.” He looked into Mel’s eyes and suddenly, in spite of himself, Mel realized the truth of this. He had been leaning. His entire body had been out of kilter, and now he was back at center. Suddenly, he realized from the enormity of its absence that he was not in pain. He couldn’t analyze or explain Bobby’s methods (“I know, I know,” Danica said, “it’s the bizarrest thing”), but they worked. After each Tuesday session, he glided down the stairs, his shoulders centered, his head poised, his entire body several inches taller than it had been when he arrived. He floated through the day as buoyant as a fresh helium balloon. If only Bobby’s work had been permanent, he would have been entirely happy, but he could not help sinking a little the next day, and a little more the next, until, by the end of the week, he had fallen entirely into his former knotted state. Monday mornings, the commute was hardest. He could feel the pressure building on his back. There were times he thought he might faint. He leaned against the window of the train. “Would it be possible to switch to a Monday appointment?” he asked Bobby. “No,” Bobby said. “You’re completely booked?” “I don’t work Mondays,” Bobby said. “Yeah, but I do! And after the weekend I can barely move.” “Hmm.” He looked at Bobby hopefully. “Would you think about it?” “Nope,” Bobby said. “You don’t understand,” Mel muttered. He had awakened early Sunday morning to the sound of pots and pans clattering and a smell of gas. Rushing into the kitchen in his bathrobe, he’d discovered Rabbi Zylberfenig standing with a lit blowtorch next to the open oven. Barbara was beaming. “We’re kashering the kitchen.” “You’re what? What did you say? I’m sorry?” Barbara dumped a pile of silverware into a pot of boiling water on the stove. “I told you I’d be doing some cleaning.” “No. No. Cleaning is one thing. Torching my oven is something entirely different.” “I didn’t think you’d mind,” she said. “You don’t cook,” she added. “It’s O.K. It’s all right.” The Rabbi turned off the blowtorch and extended his hand to Mel. “It’s quite understandable you’re surprised the kitchen is turned upside down, but I assure you the food will be as good as ever. Maybe even improved!” Mel backed away from the young bearded man in his black frock coat and white shirt, his black round-brimmed hat and his shiny black dress shoes. “Listen, I’m an agnostic, O.K.?” he blurted out. This was not so much a point of information as a desperate jab in self-defense on the threshold of his kitchen. The Rabbi smiled. His eyes were round and the palest blue. “Agnostic! That’s good—that’s wonderful. You are full of questions, Mordechai. It’s a wonderful place to start.” “Who’s Mordechai?” Mel asked, bewildered. Then he realized that the Rabbi had called him by his Hebrew name. A searing flame swept up his left side. Barbara must have told the Rabbi. He felt utterly exposed. Betrayed. His Hebrew name was like his parents’ living room, a place no one entered except for weddings and funerals. His Hebrew name was his mother’s white sofa; it was her silver tea set on the sideboard, garish and grandiose, mummified in plastic wrap, never tarnished and never used. “My wife is turning into something frightening,” Mel confided to Bobby now. “I barely recognize her anymore.” Bobby took this in with a sad smile. He touched Mel’s shoulder with his long healing fingertips. Then, almost in the same moment, he was ushering Mel to the door. No matter how late Bobby began a session, he always ended on time. “I’ve got my eight-thirty,” he said. “Where?” Mel protested, gesturing at the empty waiting room. He’d never once seen anyone arrive at eight-thirty. “It’s a long-distance client,” Bobby explained. “Oh,” Mel said, as if he understood. Only after he left did he begin to think Bobby was putting him off—or maybe just putting him on. Long-distance Alexander treatment? How did that work? How could Bobby possibly make adjustments over the phone? He arrived at isis with that niggling discomfort—the confusion about Bobby’s imaginary client—and as he headed down the hall Jonathan called out to him, “Hey, Millstein. We’ve got a new plan to get you some help. We’re promoting Danica. She’s going to be giving you a hand around here.” “Danica! What do you mean, giving me a hand?” “With the hires, the recruitment, all the stuff you have to do. She can take the desk next to yours.” There was something so flippant in this, so ferociously casual, that Mel felt his teeth clench. “What are you saying?” he asked. “What do you propose for her new position?” “Co-director, human resources. What’s the problem?” “Jonathan, this isn’t usually the . . . Is she taking my job? Sharing it with me? Where does she fit in the chain of command?” “Relax,” Jonathan said. “You aren’t losing your job or anything.” “Losing my job?” Mel echoed. “Hey, cheer up. Stop whining.” Jonathan’s cell phone rang, and he examined the caller I.D. and smiled. “Whining?” Mel repeated in disbelief as Jonathan hurried off. Aldwin assured him afterward that Jonathan hadn’t meant anything by this—that Jonathan had a unique way of talking, and that Mel was not being demoted. Far from it. Aldwin was Jonathan’s opposite, smooth and conciliatory where his partner was rough. Mel had seen the two of them handle other people together. All day he worked in a cloud. He tried to carry on as usual, but he could not. He was working with Danica now. He had to orient her and help her settle in, and he felt in his very spine that he was training his replacement. It was only Tuesday afternoon, and the pain was already rising again. He thought of it as the pain now, not his pain but a larger, impersonal force. The pain—the way opera singers speak of their instrument, the voice. This was a mistake; this was all a mistake. He should never have left the university to work with these kids. All around him programmers were typing, juggling, bouncing rubber balls. They knew nothing, cared nothing. Why had he come here—apart from his trouble with his former boss, apart from the promises of stock, the chance of millions? He should leave, resign now, gather up the pictures on his desk and run away. One-handed, he phoned Bobby. “Yeah,” Bobby said. “I think I’ve pulled something again,” Mel told him in a low voice. “I’m all out of alignment.” “Mmm-hmm.” “Could I come back? Just for a few minutes?” Bobby sighed. “Yes?” “I’m busy,” Bobby said. Mel stared at the phone. He had never known anyone demonstrably less busy. “Besides,” Bobby added laconically, “my wife is sick.” That spring, Jonathan and Aldwin chose their venture capitalists, and a C.E.O. as well. isis Mission Statements printed on royal-blue card stock appeared on all the walls. They began: “1. Have fun. 2. Never ignore profit.” Danica came to Mel constantly with questions and comments and little queries from new hires. He worked twice as hard, now that he was co-directing human resources with her. She gave him an exercise ball to match her own and insisted that if he jettisoned his swivel chair all his problems would be solved. On his very first attempt to balance on the ball, Mel slid off and injured himself all over again. Head down, eyes smarting, he was pacing the diminished open space between cubicles when Bobby called to cancel that week’s appointment. “No!” Mel moaned. “You’ve got to understand, I’m in pain.” “Yeah, pain is no fun,” Bobby said with his usual calm. “Please. Is there any other day we can reschedule?” “No can do. Jeannie’s not feeling well.” “Which one is that?” He heard the sarcasm creeping into his voice, but he was hurting and he couldn’t help himself. “Is Jeannie the long-distance client?” Bobby’s simple response chastened him. “She’s my wife.” Bobby began to cancel regularly, with scarcely any notice. Sometimes he called Mel at home the night before. He had to take Jeannie to the herbalist or the hydrotherapist or the hypnotist. The excuses became more and more obscure. Once, he cancelled because Jeannie’s viola was in the shop and he had to drive her down to the Cape to try out an instrument she was thinking of borrowing. Twice Bobby cancelled when Jeannie was playing with her all-women Seneca Falls Quartet. Bobby called and said, “I’m driving this week.” “What! Again?” Mel burst out. “Isn’t there any other way she can get to the performance?” “Oh, it’s just a rehearsal,” Bobby said. “A rehearsal. And there is no one else to drive her?” “Well, she could probably drive herself,” Bobby mused. “Please,” Mel said, “I’m begging you. I’m begging her.” Bobby was quiet for a moment on the other end of the line. Then he said again, “She’s just not feeling real well.” Mel pleaded, demanded, remonstrated. He even asked, “Are there exercises I could do at home? Are there books that I could read?” “Nope,” Bobby said. “No good ones.” “Aren’t there any tips you could give me for the days you cancel?” he begged Bobby at one session. “No tips,” Bobby said, gazing at him steadily with his river-gray eyes. “Just be mindful. Be aware. There’s nothing else you can really do.” “That’s it? Are you telling me I’m going to have to live with pain for the rest of my life?” “Maybe,” Bobby said, so nonchalantly that Mel almost laughed. “You have a terrible bedside manner,” Mel said. “You aren’t in bed,” Bobby said. “Could you do me a favor? Could you at least give me the dates of Jeannie’s rehearsals and performances, so I’ll know what to expect?” “O.K., sure,” Bobby said. “You’re welcome to come with us, too. The next one is in Northampton.” Mel stared at him. Sometimes he wondered if Bobby remembered why he was standing there in the office. Did Bobby seriously think that Mel was volunteering to crouch in the back of a car all the way out to western Mass., only to sit for two hours more in a church somewhere? “No, I don’t think so.” The words escaped him. He was thinking aloud. “Well, the viola is actually very interesting,” Bobby replied evenly, as if Mel had been arguing with him about music. “And that’s because it’s the inner voice. Jeannie says it’s got the least ego of the Western instruments.” “O.K.,” Mel said. “It’s gradualist, working from within.” Bobby looked off into the air contemplatively, even as Mel stood before him, silent but impatient, desperate for relief. “That’s the political view,” Bobby said. “The thing I like about the viola is you really have to listen.” That Friday, isis got its biggest contract to date. Yahoo! was adopting the isis system. Jonathan and Aldwin gathered all forty-two employees near the windows where the hammock had been, and the whole company whooped and cheered. “This is your work,” Aldwin said, pointing to the programmers. “You guys are super,” said the C.E.O., who spoke without obscenities and shaved and wore business apparel. “You guys are animals!” Jonathan shouted, and raised his fist. The programmers talked of convertibles and motorcycles. They debated which were fastest and which were overpriced—not that it mattered anymore! They spoke of vacations. A company camping trip in the High Sierra. No, a voyage down the River Nile, a cruise to see the Pyramids. It was a great day, and even as he stood, afraid to bend or turn, pinioned by pain, Mel felt proud. He tried to tell Barbara what had happened as they sat in the den after dinner, she in the La-Z-Boy and he in a straight-backed chair with his special cushion wedged under him. “It’s an amazing thing, watching an entire company come to life like this. We had four thousand square feet of empty space and now . . .” Barbara looked up from “Tales of the Bialystoker Rebbes” and nodded. “Do you know what the fifth Bialystoker said?” He sighed. “ ‘Consider all the riches in the world, all its beauties and pleasures. How much greater is the Holy One Blessed Be He than these.’ ” “Uh-huh,” Mel said. “But, wait, here’s the other part. ‘Consider all the suffering in the world, all its difficulties, poverty, and pain. How much greater is the Holy One Blessed Be He than these.’ According to legend, the fifth Bialystoker heard this from birds in the forest.” “That was very perceptive of him,” Mel said. Disappointed, Barbara turned back to her book. “You don’t have to be so ironic,” she murmured. You don’t have to be such a raving Hasidic fanatic, he thought, but he didn’t say it. Instead, he sat, silent and furious. A few minutes later all the lights in the den blacked out. “Oh, I’m sorry,” Barbara said. “I put them on timers so we wouldn’t have to turn the lights off on Shabbat. I guess I set them too early.” In the dark, he sensed her waiting in her chair with her book in her lap. He felt confused and somehow trapped. Did she want him to turn the lights on for her? Or would she take offense if he did? She was sitting quite still, and he sat next to her. He wondered what good zillions would be for him and Barbara. What would they possibly spend them on—apart from a divorce? That week, Bobby cancelled, and the next week as well. He said he had to take Jeannie in for treatment, but gave no further explanation. “I wish you would come with me to services,” Barbara told Mel on Saturday morning. Her eyes were full of dreamy concern. “I wish I were a horse,” Mel said. Startled from her reverie, she turned to him with some alarm. “Then I could sleep standing up.” “Oh,” Barbara said, as if relieved, and laughed softly. “Do you remember when Annie wished she was a horse?” “Of course I do,” said Mel, although he had no recollection of this at all. The phone on the kitchen wall rang. “First, she wanted to ride horses, and then she wanted to have a horse . . .” The phone rang again. “And then she said she just wanted to be a horse.” Barbara had given up answering the phone on Saturdays. Mel picked up. “Hey. It’s Bobby.” “Oh,” Mel said. “Listen, why don’t you call on the weeks you can make it?” “That’s what I’m doing. I’m calling to confirm Tuesday.” Bobby paused. “Jeannie’s dead.” “Dead!” “That’s right.” Of course he’d known Jeannie was sick, but Bobby had never discussed the details, and Mel had assumed this was a long, wasting sort of disease, a multiyear type of battle—not something so quick. After all, Jeannie had been rehearsing all this time, and even performing. He realized with a pang that he would never hear her play. And he had been so offended by Bobby’s breezy invitation. He remembered that actually he liked chamber music—in small doses. The melodic kind, in any case, with a romping race to the finish. He could have told Barbara about the Seneca Falls Quartet, and they might have driven out to Northampton together. Barbara had played the piano years ago. They could have visited Sam at Amherst. Panicked, his eyes darted from the kitchen clock to Barbara’s round face to the mezuzah in the doorway, for he was mortified by his own thoughts, the laundry list and petty day-trip planner of his brain. Jeannie had died. And he’d been pressing Bobby all these weeks, anxious only about his own back. How insistently his ideas devolved upon himself. How whiny he had become—just as Jonathan had said. And he had always considered himself rather stoic, before he’d experienced chronic pain. With some trepidation, he walked up Hampshire Street on Tuesday morning. He paused at the Flower Pot, where the window was painted “Floral Gifts for All Occasions . . . I Love You . . . Congratulations . . . Happy Birthday . . . Sympathy . . . Just Because.” He hesitated, and then ventured in. Shyly, he gazed at the orchids and the potted azaleas, the black buckets of giant daisies and baby sunflowers. “May I help you?” the saleslady asked. In glass refrigerators, the long-stemmed roses stood apart, chilly and elegant, coral, blood-red, cream, and white. “Just looking,” he murmured, and slipped outside again. Bobby was pale, his gaunt cheeks and gray hair ashen. “I’m sorry,” Mel said. Bobby nodded. “It’s terrible,” Mel blurted out. “Beyond measure,” Bobby agreed, and reached out and squared Mel’s shoulders. He had lost almost all color, but he had not lost his touch. By the end of the session, Mel was standing straight again, his shoulders readjusted, his back aligned. Mel lingered in the doorway. He wanted to say something, but he didn’t know what. “Thanks a million,” he said. Bobby nodded. “I’d better go back.” It was eight-thirty, exactly. Mel dreaded walking down the stairs; he feared the pain he knew awaited him, the tightening, the loneliness, the misalignment. “Long-distance client?” he asked hopefully, conversationally. “Yup.” Bobby disappeared into the examining room, swinging the door behind him. Mel strained his ears to hear a telephone or a radio or a computer’s whir and beep, but he heard nothing. He stared at the crack between door and jamb. He knew he should go, but he couldn’t leave. Who was this long-distance client? Some figment of Bobby’s imagination? Someone who had moved away? A rich eccentric who kept Bobby on retainer just for thinking about him? Was it a disciple of some sort—a black-belt Alexander student who took treatment telepathically? The one time Bobby had dropped a hint, he’d suggested something of the sort. Mel had grumbled, “Well, given all these scheduling problems maybe you should start treating me long-distance, too.” Bobby had mulled this seriously. Then he said, “In your case, I don’t think it would do much good.” “Oh, really?” Mel asked, sarcastic again. “You’re not on that level yet,” Bobby explained. “It takes a lot of time.” “Yeah, I’ll bet.” “At least fifteen years.” Still no noise. Mel strained his ears. All he heard was water in the building’s pipes, a distant rumbling of trucks outside. What could Bobby hear in there? Was it Jeannie? Had it been Jeannie all this time? What frequency, what inner voice did Bobby find to guide him? He crept up to the door and peeked inside. Curious, skeptical, anguished, he spied Bobby plucking a patient’s file from the shelf. Bobby opened the manila folder on his desk and then, with great concentration, just as he did with Mel’s file, he pencilled the date inside. With his back to Mel, he sat down in the metal folding chair at the desk and sighed, even as he gazed out into the middle distance between Jeannie and the snowy mountain. The scene was utterly serious, even though it made no sense. Bobby’s manner was focussed, studious, entirely professional. He sat tall in his chair, head centered, shoulders at rest. And yet he wasn’t at rest. He leaned forward, listening, even as Mel did, waiting, watching for something not yet visible. He considered the empty space in front of him, making adjustments of the subtlest kind. 
Ashes I’m at work on Saturday when I get the call. Carina, from the front counter, pages me over the intercom and when I finally get to the phone it’s my older brother, Jano, telling me I might want to sit down because he has upsetting news. “Tell me,” I say. “Do you have a chair?” “Just tell me.” What I have is a hollow feeling in my stomach the size of a coconut. “Mamá’s gone,” he says. “What?” My heart seizes. “Señora López found her today.” “Found her? Where was Papi?” “Are you sitting down?” he asks again. “Stop asking me that. Why can’t you just answer my questions?” “It’s a little bit complicated, O.K.?” “How?” But he won’t answer that, either. He just suggests we meet when I get off work because we have a lot of things to take care of. I’m not supposed to use the phone during work hours, but I call Armando as soon as I hang up. I hold the plastic beige contraption trembling next to my ear as I talk. He tells me I should take off early, that my boss will understand because this is an extenuating circumstance. Armando’s never had to work anywhere like this, though, and he doesn’t get the idea that I’m just a body doing a job, not somebody doing it. Still, I tell him I’ll try. He leaves me with “We can go out for dinner if you want. You don’t have to cook.” I end up staying at Casa de la Carne for my whole shift. Work helps keep my mind off everything. If I’d left early, I would have been a blubbering thing sitting on the curb in the parking lot—the way I can be only in private, or sometimes, when he’s being nice, with Armando. Never in front of my family. I know they think I’m more heartless than them for that, but I know the truth. I know my depths. The story is that she had a heart attack. She was cooking—like she was always cooking—and she simply fell over on the kitchen floor. Papi was sitting in a wooden chair at the kitchen table, probably smoking a cigarette while she worked, waiting to be served. She fell right at his feet. We think he tried to help her, tried to blow air into her mouth, pumping and puffing. Jano says Papi picked up the phone but couldn’t remember the number for emergency, and, after trying a jumble of numbers over and over again, he just gave up. “Why didn’t he call one of us?” I say when I see Jano after work. Jano shrugs. “I don’t think he really knew what was happening.” We both know Papi is sick, mentally gone, but we never talk about him in those terms. We like to pretend he’s just old. When Sra. López got there this morning, she found Papi sitting in the wooden chair with the phone still in his hand, buzzing because it was off the hook. She saw Mamá at his feet. “The oven was on, too,” Jano says. “There could have been a fire on top of everything else.” He shakes his head. Sra. López pried the phone from Papi’s hands and called Jano. That was earlier today. “Papi’s going to stay with me now,” Jano says. “I don’t think he can be alone.” “He can stay with me,” I say. Jano shakes his head. “Uh-uh.” “Why not?” “He’ll like it at our house better.” “My place is fine.” “What?” Jano asks. “You have a newfound interest in him?” “Do you?” We’re at an ice-cream shop near my work. The cold air has turned Jano’s lips slightly purple. Besides an employee in a pink apron, we’re the only people here. The bright lights bounce off the white counters and smack me in the face. I’m quiet for a minute. Then I start on a reel of questions. How does he know it was a heart attack? What are we going to do now? What’s happening to the house? Is his wife, Zenia, O.K. with Papi being there? What else did Papi say? Why did Sra. López call him instead of me? He answers every one. He’s unusually patient with me. He’s waiting to see if I’ll break, I know, if this will be the thing that puts me over the edge, brave-faced little Mireya. The last time I saw her, my mother was sitting with me on her patio. She was in the metal rocking chair she’d had since before I was born, olive-green seat cushions and floral ironwork along the arms. She had her legs stretched out in front of her, knee-high nylons rolled down around her crossed ankles like life preservers, terry house slippers on her feet. She looked relaxed as she lectured me on her favorite subject—politics. She was telling me how fortunate it was that she had named me Mireya, because the President of Panama was Mireya Moscoso. She must have said about ten times, “That could have been you,” as if the only prerequisite for becoming the President was having the right name. She hated that politics held no interest for me. The one thing my mother liked about Armando was his appetite for the political. Just for that, of all the people in my family, she was his only fan. That day, there was an election parade in the neighborhood. Martín Torrijos was riding all over our section of town, shouting from the windows of his van and waving a Panamanian flag in a bid to become the next President. It was the reason we were outside on the patio. My mother was waiting for him. We’d been talking for almost an hour when his big white van, followed by pickup trucks with speakers on the flatbeds blasting music, rumbled up our street. My mother stood and smoothed out the front of her robe. She was old enough that her spine had begun to bow. Torrijos stopped his van in front of our patio. He asked my mother how she and her sister, meaning me, were doing. My mother shouted, “What will you do about the hospitals?” Torrijos smiled and waved. “And what about the canal?” she yelled into the sunlight. Torrijos tossed a T-shirt out the window to her. “For you!” he shouted. My mother let it land at her feet. “Pendejo!” she shouted, and the van continued up the street. It wasn’t everyone who would call a politician an idiot to his face. I smiled until I thought my cheeks would burst. I’d always felt there was something special between my mother and me. Like she was somehow more mine than Jano’s. But maybe all children feel that—a sovereignty of ownership over the parent they love best. When I get home that night, Armando sprints out to see me. “Pobrecita,” he says. He’s making a face like I’m a puppy with a broken leg. “I have a poem for you.” “Another one?” “When was the last one?” he asks, leaning over the kitchen table, reaching for a book. He finds the page he wants and says, “It’s by César Vallejo. He’s one of the great writers. He wrote for the people.” I sit down as he reads it to me. I don’t understand poetry the way he does. Things either sound good to me or they don’t. That’s it. The poem he reads tonight is short. It’s about the poet’s brother, who died. My favorite line is “And now a shadow falls on the soul.” I feel the tears burn behind my eyes. “It’s nice,” I say when he’s done. Then I quickly scoot my chair back and head for the shower. Under the spray, the meat juices wash from my fingernails, from my pores. I tilt my head back and let the water stream down my face until I can’t tell anymore where the water ends and my tears begin. Armando comes in after me. He knows this is my place to cry. He peels off his clothes and steps into the stall and tries to hold me. His dark, moppish hair sticks to the sides of his face. His skin slips over mine. He pushes me out of the water and examines my eyes. “Are the tears gone now?” I shrug. “Tell me, Mireya,” he pleads. It’s the split second of something in his voice that, despite everything else, makes me love him. “I think they’re just starting,” I say. He bends down and licks one cheek, then the other, gently, with the tip of his tongue. “I’ll get them,” he says, and he does. My father cleaned government buildings at night. He came home in the early morning hours, high on ammonia and bleach, and made my mother prepare dinner for him in the dark. When he worked overtime, she cooked dinner as the sun rose. Many nights, the smell of spicy chicken or ropa vieja woke me and I knew that my father had just arrived. During the day, he should have been sleeping, but more often he was out in bars or with other women or smoking on our front step, ashes fluttering in the air like confetti. My mother was never happy with him. I mean, she must have been at one time, but I’d never witnessed it. I’d hear her, at night, through the thin walls, sobbing in her room. She knew about everything my father did—I often heard them arguing about his carryings-on—but, for all her strength, she was never able to stop him and never able to walk away. There was one time when I thought she came close. My father had taken a job cleaning houses during the day and at some point he started returning home with hair dryers, mixing bowls, toaster ovens, picture frames. Of course, we knew where these things were coming from. No one said anything, though, until a police officer showed up at our house one afternoon asking questions. It was easy enough to get rid of him—my father offered him a speaker system—but I’d never seen my mother so angry. For a whole week, she spoke to him only once, when she told him, “You shamed me.” The only time I even saw a moment of affection between them was much later, after Jano had married and I had moved out on my own. My father had retired, and they were living off his pension and the odd lottery payout. My mother had asked me to get some melons at the stand near my house and bring them over. She was very particular about which melons she deemed acceptable. When I got there, the front door was wide open and inside I saw them, sitting on our old peach-colored couch, my father at one end and my mother stretched out at the other, her feet propped on his lap. He was tickling the soles of her feet with his fingertips and she was flinching, but laughing. Then he reached over and cupped her hair behind her ear. She followed the movement of his hand with her head, like a horse. That was all. But there was real tenderness in it. Armando is Argentinean, a different breed. We met when I was on my way out of work one afternoon, heading for the bus. He must have been standing there for hours, surveying every so-and-so who walked by. I’m not beautiful. I know that. I’m just this girl with my mother’s squash-shaped body, and dense black hair and a mole on my right cheek. But I always thought it meant something that he seized on me. Came right up to me and said, “You look like you could use a decent meal. Can I take you out?” He had on brown slacks and a white linen shirt. I brushed him off at first. “What’s your name?” he asked. “Mireya.” He stopped in his tracks, playing. “That’s perfect,” he said. “The reservation is under Mireya.” It was such a line. But I liked the idea of going someplace where we would need a reservation, so I said yes. We ended up at one of the best steak houses in Panama City, this spot with gold doors that have an image of a bull carved into them. It was the first and last time we ever went out to a dinner like that. He paid for the whole thing, and I ate as much as I could get in me. At the end of the meal, he asked if he could sleep on my floor for a few nights. Told me that he’d just arrived in Panama and didn’t know anyone and didn’t want to go back to Argentina because of some issue with his parents. I found out later it was money—his wealthy parents had finally told him he needed to find a job or get out. The idea of a job was distasteful to a person like Armando, so he got out. That night, though, he said he would pay me for a place on the floor, which he never did. And he promised to keep his hands to himself, which he didn’t. But he seemed harmless enough. So there, in the steak house, my belly warm and full, I said yes. Carina, at work, says I only fell for him out of habit. The habit of seeing him every day. She says, “Imagine someone put a plate with a nice big pork chop on it in front of you. But you felt like a hamburger, so you said no thanks. And then the next day they brought you a plate with another big pork chop. And the next day and the next day. Eventually, you would start wanting it, even though in the beginning you had no interest. Right?” “Armando’s not a pork chop,” I say. She shrugs. “At least a pork chop would feed you.” Two days pass and I still can’t get myself together. It’s like a small animal pounces on me every day, clawing at me, tearing me to shreds. I go outside on my break and sit on the concrete step behind Casa de la Carne by myself. The ground is slick with grease and mangy dogs sniff around my feet, but I’m too ruined to care. When my time is over, I mop up my face and reassemble my hair into a ponytail. I can’t stop thinking about the fact that my mother’s gone, though. It’s bad. I cut my finger twice on the slicer before the day’s even rolled around to lunchtime. When I tell them I don’t care and that I don’t want to wear the steel-mesh gloves while I cut, they send me home. Armando’s on his back on the couch, his socked feet up on the arm, reading. The whole place smells like the sweat from his socks. “What are you doing here?” he asks, startled, when I come in. “They sent me home.” “You were fired?” He looks terrified. For a second, I have this impulse to answer yes, to tell him he’s the one who has to find a job now, figure out a way to support us both, just to see what he would do. I shrug. “They just sent me home.” He purses his lips and looks away, at nothing, like he’s weighing what this might mean. “What? You have someone coming over?” I ask. “No.” He cheated on me once, when we first started, with this girl who had air-conditioning at her place. He told me about it because he would sleep there—no mosquitoes, no night sweats. He claimed it had nothing to do with her, but there were a few nights during a blackout when he went over there just the same. So. He might have left me for her at some point, I don’t know, but she moved to the United States, anyway. “I’m trying to finish this book by tomorrow,” he says, holding up what’s in his hand. “You won’t bother me, right?” “I’m going to make lunch.” I raise my hand to show him the bandages, but he’s already back to his book. “Meatballs and patacones for me?” he asks hopefully. “Oh, and your papi called. I think it was him. He said it was him at first, and then he kept saying he had the wrong number. The man is messed up, Mireya. You guys should put him in a hospital, you know?” I glare at him as he reads. I unwrap the tape and gauze—pink with my blood—from my fingers, balancing them in my hand, and consider throwing them at him. But I don’t. I just leave them at his feet to see if he’ll even notice. I call my father back that night. Zenia answers. She’s never liked me. I think when she and Jano started together, years ago, he told her not to trust me. My brother has always suffered from the belief that I came into the world to steal my parents’ attention from him. When I was younger, he claimed that for the entire ride to the hospital while my mother was in labor with me, she had shouted, “I don’t want it!” “You see?” he said. “Even then she knew you were a bad idea.” My mother heard him and swatted him on the arm so hard that a patch of red bloomed on his skin. “Is my father there?” I ask. “He’s having a good time here, you know.” “Please, Zenia. I want to talk to him.” She sighs. “Momentito.” “Aló?” he says, when he gets on the phone. “Who is this?” “It’s Mireya.” “La Presidenta?” “No. It’s me. Your daughter.” It sounds like he’s chewing on something. “How are you doing?” I ask. “Fine. There’s a fan in my bedroom,” he says. “What are you eating?” “I’m drinking.” “You’re chewing your drink?” He’s quiet. “Are you O.K. over there? Are you happy?” “I miss you,” he says, unexpectedly. I wonder if he even knows who he’s talking to. “Me?” “That fan makes a lot of noise, though.” “I’ll tell Jano to fix it for you.” “I used to live in my own house. Is that right?” “Yes.” He’s silent again. “Do you want me to come visit you?” I ask. My father was drunk almost every day while I was growing up. He was hardly around, a shadow of a father. It’s no secret that Jano and I hardened ourselves to him. But, still, it’s amazing how much I want him to say yes. “Our dinner is ready,” he says instead. “O.K., Papi.” “We’re having arroz con pollo.” “I’m going to get off now. I’ll see you in a few days.” “Yes. It would be very nice to see the President.” “Goodbye, Papi.” When I show up at Casa de la Carne the next day, Carina pulls me aside and asks what I’m doing there. “I thought you got fired,” she says. I assure her I was just sent home early because of personal problems. She shakes her head at me, her gold hoop earrings swaying against her jaw. “No,” she says, drawing it out as if the word were a rubber band. “I think you should talk to Tino.” But as soon as she says it I understand. I didn’t wear the gloves, which is a safety violation, which is a big deal. I was an idiot to think that they were just giving me some time off to pull myself together. Tino confirms it. I don’t go home right away, though. I get on the bus to my parents’ house. They lived on a sloping street where the houses press against one another, side by side, like children in a line holding hands. Theirs looks like all the others: a big cement patio out front, bars over the windows, wire trash bins held up on poles by the curb. I open the gate and step onto the patio. For some reason I’m feeling nervous, like I’m trespassing, like someone else has already taken over this house. Even so, I’m doing O.K. until I notice the chair where I last saw my mother. The seat cushion is still flattened from her weight, the imprint of her bottom depressed into the foam. It splits my heart in two. I take a few deep breaths and make my way to the chair. Slowly, I lower myself into the impression she formed. The air is steaming hot, the sun piercing. I sit for as long as I can take it, and then I have to leave. Memories are thin, watery and fragile, like gas rising off the pavement on the hottest days. But there are times I can see clearly. I was eight. We had driven to my Tía Cre’s house for a party. The boys abandoned us, locking themselves in a room doing who knows what, but no one asked because they were boys and anything was permissible. My cousin Juanita and I went down to the spiny shores of the bay, rooting around in the small pools between the rocks for snails and crabs. This was my mother’s favorite place. She was forever reminiscing about growing up in a house on the bay, about the days when she and Tía Cre basically lived among the rocks and on the crescent of sand at their base. My cousin and I were barefoot, and the ocean rolled in far enough at times to lick the rocks until they glistened. I was stepping down from one rock to another when I slipped. My feet shot out in front of me and I fell backward. My spine landed flat on a rock and my head snapped back against a rough crest of stone. I must have blacked out for a few seconds. When I was conscious again, I reached back and felt the blood, sticky in my hair. I had a gash like a long slug, just behind my ear. My cousin ran screaming back to the house. I don’t remember much between then and when my mother arrived. I saw her bending over me. I saw the sunlight filtering through her black hair, curled at the tips. There was a look of consternation on her face; she looked like she wanted to slap me but couldn’t bring herself to do it. She had a white apron around her waist—she must have been helping Tía Cre in the kitchen—and I remember it fluttering over me as she leaned down and scooped me up in her arms. The blood stopped soon enough. Tía Cre cleaned and bandaged me. The adults were worried and then not worried. My father looked at me blandly—he was drunk—and declared that I would be fine. Jano came out of the bedroom carrying a joystick, the cord stretching all the way across the floor. He peered at me, and then walked away shrugging. I think he thought I was just creating a show to get attention. To prove him wrong, I bit my lip to keep from crying. I haven’t cried in front of my family since. In my cousin’s dark bedroom, the windows wide open, the curtains blowing, my mother stayed with me while the party went on. She climbed into bed with me and held me from behind. “I’m not happy,” she said. “I didn’t mean to do it,” I told her. “You aren’t allowed to leave me, you know.” I could smell the vegetable oil and cooking gas that had crept into the fabric of her clothes and her hair. “Everyone else can leave, but not you.” My head stung, pain pulsing around me like a halo. I could hear the muffled sounds of the party through the door—ice clinking in glasses, spontaneous riots of laughter, a faint thread of music. “I’m sorry,” I said. She sighed and then pinched a bit of skin on my arm and twisted it. I knew then that she really had wanted to hit me back on the rocks. The pinch was a compromise. “Be more careful,” she said. “From now on, you do that for me.” The day before the funeral, I’m cruising around town on the bus. There’s not much else to do. Everyone still thinks I have a job, so I have to leave the house during the day. The bus is maybe a kilometre out when, through the window, I see Armando. From the back, but I can tell it’s him. He’s walking with his arm around a woman’s shoulder, her arm around his waist. Her wrist drips with jewelry, expensive-looking stuff, the kind you could get only at a place like Mercurio. I get off at the next stop and walk back toward them. I’m about ten metres away when Armando sees me. He drops his arm from the woman’s shoulder. “You’re not at work,” he says when I’m close enough. “I don’t work there anymore.” The woman next to him is wearing big, round sunglasses that are probably designer. “What do you mean?” “I just don’t.” I stare unblinkingly at the woman as I say it. I can’t see her eyes, but I can see her eyebrows above the sunglasses. “Hey,” he says. It’s that soft “hey” he gives me sometimes in the middle of the night when he wants to wake me, because, he says, he misses me. Then he takes me by the arm and drags me a few steps away. “Is that the same girl from before?” I ask. As soon as I say it, though, I realize I don’t want the answer. Either way, it’s bad. He shakes his head. “Who is she, then?” “Mireya, please.” “How long have you been with her?” I say. He shakes his head again. “Tell me how long!” “A few weeks, O.K.?” “She’s rich?” “She gives me what I need.” He looks defiant, suddenly. He’s over his shame, or he’s pretending to be over it. “I don’t? I go to work so you can eat!” “Armando,” the woman calls. That’s when I lay into him. Just sock him one in his chest. He stumbles backward and the next thing I know I’m lunging at him, tearing into his pockets, grabbing hold of what I can. He clutches my wrists, trying to pry my hands away. But I want it—whatever he has, I want it. With both of us pulling, the seam of his pocket rips and he starts yelling at me to stop, but I won’t. He rams the top of his head against my shoulder, trying to create some distance between us. And somehow we end up on the ground, tiny pebbles pressing into my skin, the sidewalk baking underneath us. Faintly, I hear the woman saying “Ay, Dios,” again and again, and I catch glimpses of her towering over us as we fight. Finally, Armando manages to pull free of me and stand. I get up, too, and brush myself off. The woman says, “Armando, this girl is crazy.” I’m a firestorm inside—everything exploding and burning—and I’m trying so hard not to talk, because I know if I do I’ll cry. Armando tells the woman to wait at the corner. You can tell she’s not used to being instructed to do anything, especially by him. But she does it. It doesn’t help that eventually I would have left him anyway, or that anyone could have seen this coming, or that I always knew we were bound to fall apart. We stare at each other, squinting in the sun. His face is light—he’s always been too pale for this country—and shiny with sweat. I can’t help thinking that there were moments when he was good to me. I wait for him to say something, but he doesn’t. I feel weightless standing there, like I’m not sure if the soles of my shoes are connected to the sidewalk anymore. “My mother was the only one in my family who liked you,” I finally say. It’s a petty impulse—wanting to hurt him because he hurt me—but I don’t care. He looks like I just slapped him. “Your mother?” I grab my bag from the ground and start walking away. I hear his shoes shuffle behind me for a second and then stop. “What about you?” he yells. “Didn’t you like me?” It’s such a heartbreaker. Because here’s the answer: “Yes, I did. Who knows why, but I did.” But right then I can’t do it. I just walk away. The funeral is what it is. I kiss a hundred cheeks and listen to a hundred stories about what a wonderful person my mother was. Everyone’s asking where Armando is, but I say again and again that I don’t want to get into it. Jano ran an obituary in the newspaper. He looks terrible, his nose red, his eyes swollen like little ravioli. Zenia, in a long-sleeved white dress, never leaves his side, her arm hooked through his. My father is seated in the front pew and I wave to him because I’m not sure what he would think if I hugged him. At one point, Jano comes over and asks if I’m O.K. “I’m fine,” I tell him. “Are you sure?” “I’m sure.” But I’m not. When the time comes, I go up to say goodbye to her. I remember, when my grandmother died, walking up the church aisle, gripping my mother’s hand. I was five. In my memory, the other people in the church are blurry, only watercolors. When my mother and I got to the casket, I could see my grandmother’s face—powdery and calm. I wanted so badly to touch her; I stood there forever thinking about doing it, but I didn’t know if I was allowed to. I didn’t want to do it and make a scene, one that Jano would chide me for later. That afternoon, I asked my mother if I could have done it. She told me of course. For all these years, I’ve hated the fact that I didn’t. Now there’s no casket, just a gold urn on a small table. What can I do? Reach my hand in? A photograph of my mother sits on an easel next to the urn. It’s black-and-white, all soft edges and haze. She is too young for me to recognize her. I wonder, if I hadn’t been her daughter, if I had just met this woman in the photograph at any time on the street, would I have liked her? But it’s a stupid thing to wonder, because of course I would have. I would have loved her anytime. When I’m done, I take a seat beside Papi. He smiles. His long, thin fingers are folded in his lap, and he looks as light and unbothered as a cloud. “How are you?” I ask. I feel none of the anger I usually do around him. “I tried to save her,” he whispers, leaning sideways. “I know, Papi,” I say. “Human beings can’t save each other from anything, though.” “I’m sorry,” I tell him, because I don’t know what else there is to offer. He nods. “Nothing to be sorry about.” “O.K.,” I say, and he pats my knee. Afterward, I take the urn with me. Jano has already said, without any discussion, that he will keep it at his house, but in my mind it’s inconceivable that it could belong to anyone but me. Holding the urn in my lap, I take a taxi straight to the bay, passing billboards and wire fences, fields of overgrown grass freckled with tiny flowers and small fires, ramshackle houses and brittle palm trees. When we get to the bay, I pay the driver. He has a stern face and he simply nods before shooting off into the gathering darkness. I carry the urn over to the rocks and sit down, balancing it beside me. I take off the lid and reach my hand in, letting my fingertips graze the dust. Then I cover it again. I sit there for hours, my bottom growing damp from the glaze of water clinging to the rocks, and look out for anything I can see. 
 

