The Blow	The blow catches him from the right. He lies stretched out, at peace, and asks about his bicycle... "Paul Rayment?" the young doctor says. "You took a whack. We are going to have to amputate, but we will save what we can... Insurance is no problem, but he has no family. ... Today we're going to have you walking, says Dr. Hansen. "I don't want a prosthesis," says Paul. "What would you prefer?" "I would prefer to take care of myself," Paul said... Indecently early a social worker is brought into the picture, Mrs. Putts. "Even once you are mobile, you are going to need someone to take care of you. Is there no one?" "No, there is no one." "You will need to engage a private nurse." The first nurse, Sheena, keeps the radio on all the time, and uses a baby voice when giving him a sponge bath. Getting rid of her isn't simple. She demands two months' wages. The second candidate is Marijana Jokic, a sallow-faced, matronly woman. Rarely has he seen anyone throw herself as fully into her duties as Marijana. Some mornings she brings her youngest, a girl, Ljuba. He revisits his estimate of Marjana. She is not unattractive, on occasion, positively handsome... Whatever love he might have once had for his body is gone. A sack of bones he is forced to carry around. She touches him with delicacy when she tends him. A man and a woman behind closed doors. They might as well be performing the sex act. But it is just nursing... Margaret McCord, an old friend, drops by for lunch. Years ago they had a brief fling. He tells he how the social worker prepared him for everything but sex, perhaps she thought it inappropriate for a man of his age. "You are still yourself, still the same handsome, healthy man you always were." They could test it right now in the bedroom. But the moment passes. He does not want to become the object of any woman's sexual charity. Unlike Margaret, Marijana has never seen him as he used to be... Marijana tells him how her husband bought her sixteen-year-old son, Drago, a motorcycle. She is afraid Drago is going to break a limb, or worse. "if you want to give Drago a fright, I'll show him my leg."... He has many regrets. He would have liked to have had a son. He sees in Marijana a perfection of a certain feminine type. He remembers there is a Mr. Jokic... Margaret pays him a second visit. "Have you decided this is the end of your sexual life?" "Margaret, give me time."... Marigana takes home his trousers and brings them back with the right legs neatly folded and sewn. His stump begins to itch. Marijana tends to it with particular care. Her touch tells him she does not find his increasingly flabby body distasteful... Drago comes by,and Paul tells him about the accident. Drago listens, and Paul comes to the conclusion that Drago is no ordinary boy. Paul makes sure the apartment is spic and span before Marijana arrives, even orders flowers. He wants to win a place I her heart, however tiny. Mariajana asks Paul what he thinks of boarding school for Drago. Paul offers to give her a loan. " I love you, and I want to give you something." She comes in a few days later with brochures from Willington College, a feeder school for the Defense Force Academy. There it is. He has become a godfather. "Is good. I tell Drago. And you? Leg is O.K? No pain?" "The leg is O.K.," he says. "No pain, no pain at all." View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
An Ex-Mas Feast	Now that my eldest sister, Maisha, was twelve, none of us knew how to relate to her anymore. She had never forgiven our parents for not being rich enough to send her to school. She had been behaving like a cat that was going feral: she came home less and less frequently, staying only to change her clothes and give me some money to pass on to our parents. When home, she avoided them as best she could, as if their presence reminded her of too many things in our lives that needed money. Though she would snap at Baba occasionally, she never said anything to Mama. Sometimes Mama went out of her way to provoke her. “Malaya! Whore! You don’t even have breasts yet!” she’d say. Maisha would ignore her. Maisha shared her thoughts with Naema, our ten-year-old sister, more than she did with all the rest of us combined, mostly talking about the dos and don’ts of a street girl. Maisha let Naema try on her high heels, showed her how to doll up her face, or how to use toothpaste and a brush. She told her to run away from any man who beat her, no matter how much money he offered her, and that she would treat Naema like Mama if she grew up to have too many children. She told Naema that it was better to starve to death than go out with any man without a condom. When she was at work, though, she ignored Naema, perhaps because Naema reminded her of home or because she didn’t want Naema to see that her big sister wasn’t as cool and chic as she made out to be. She tolerated me more outside than inside. I could chat her up on the pavement no matter what rags I was wearing. An eight-year-old boy wouldn’t get in the way when she was waiting for a customer. We knew how to pretend that we were strangers—just a street kid and a prostitute talking. Yet our machokosh family was lucky. Unlike most, our street family had stayed together—at least until that Ex-mas season. The sun had gone down on Ex-mas evening. Bad weather had stormed the seasons out of order, and Nairobi sat in a low flood, the light December rain droning on our tarpaulin roof. I was sitting on the floor of our shack, which stood on a cement slab at the end of an alley, leaning against the back of an old brick shop. Occasional winds swelled the brown polythene walls. The floor was nested with cushions that I had scavenged from a dump on Biashara Street. At night, we rolled up the edge of the tarpaulin to let in the glow of the shop’s security lights. A board, which served as our door, lay by the shop wall. A clap of thunder woke Mama. She got up sluggishly, pulling her hands away from Maisha’s trunk box, which she had held on to while she slept. It was a navy-blue trunk with brass linings and rollers and it took up a good part of our living space. Panicking, Mama groped her way from wall to wall, frisking my two-year-old twin brother and sister, Otieno and Atieno, and Baba; all three were sleeping, tangled up together like puppies. She was looking for Baby. Mama’s white T-shirt, which she had been given three months back, when she delivered Baby, had twin milk stains on the front. Then she must have remembered that he was with Maisha and Naema. She relaxed and stretched in a yawn, hitting a rafter of cork. One of the stones that weighted our roof fell down outside. Now Mama put her hands under her shuka and retied the strings of the money purse around her waist; sleep and alcohol had swung it out of place. She dug through our family carton, scooping out clothes, shoes, and my new school uniform wrapped in useless documents that Baba had picked from people’s pockets. Mama dug on, and the contents of the carton piled up on Baba and the twins. Then she unearthed a tin of New Suntan Shoe Glue. The glue was our Ex-mas gift from the children of a machokosh that lived nearby. Mama smiled at the glue and winked at me, pushing her tongue through the holes left by her missing teeth. She snapped the tin’s top expertly, and the shack swelled with the smell of a shoemaker’s stall. I watched her decant the kabire into my plastic “feeding bottle.” It glowed warm and yellow in the dull light. Though she still appeared drunk from last night’s party, her hands were so steady that her large tinsel Ex-mas bangles, a gift from a church Ex-mas party, did not even sway. When she had poured enough, she cut the flow of the glue by tilting the tin up. The last stream of the gum entering the bottle weakened and braided itself before tapering in midair like an icicle. She covered the plastic with her palm, to retain the glue’s power. Sniffing it would kill my hunger in case Maisha did not return with an Ex-mas feast for us. Mama turned to Baba, shoving his body with her foot. “Wake up, you never work for days!” Baba turned and groaned. His feet were poking outside the shack, under the waterproof wall. His toes had broken free of his wet tennis shoes. Mama shoved him again, and he began to wriggle his legs as if he were walking in his sleep. Our dog growled outside. Mama snapped her fingers, and the dog came in, her ripe pregnancy swaying like heavy washing in the wind. For a month and a half, Mama, who was good at spotting dog pregnancies, had baited her with tenderness and food till she became ours; Mama hoped to sell the puppies to raise money for my textbooks. Now the dog came inside and licked Atieno’s face. Mama probed her stomach with crooked fingers, like a native midwife. “Oh, Simba, childbirth is chasing you,” she whispered into the dog’s ears. “Like school is chasing my son.” She pushed the dog outside. Simba lay down, covering Baba’s feet with her warmth. Occasionally, she barked to keep the other dogs from tampering with our mobile kitchen, which was leaning against the wall of the store. “Jigana, did you do well last night with Baby?” Mama asked me suddenly. “I made a bit,” I assured her, and passed her a handful of coins and notes. She pushed the money under her shuka; the zip of the purse released two crisp farts. Though people were more generous to beggars at Ex-mas, our real bait was Baby. We took turns pushing him in the faces of passersby. “Aii! Son, you never see Ex-mas like this year.” Her face widened in a grin. “We shall pay school fees next year. No more randa-meandering around. No more chomaring your brain with glue, boy. You going back to school! Did the rain beat you and Baby?” “Rain caught me here,” I said. “And Baby? Who is carrying him?” “Naema,” I said. “And Maisha? Where is she to do her time with the child?” “Mama, she is very angry.” “That gal is beat-beating my head. Three months now she is not greeting me. What insects are eating her brain?” Sometimes Mama’s words came out like a yawn because the holes between her teeth were wide. “Eh, now that she shakes-shakes her body to moneymen she thinks she has passed me? Tell me, why did she refuse to stay with Baby?” “She says it’s child abuse.” “Child abuse? Is she now N.G.O. worker? She likes being a prostitute better than begging with Baby?” “Me, I don’t know. She just went with the ma-men tourists. Today, real white people, musungu. With monkey.” Mama spat through the doorway. “Puu, those ones are useless. I know them. They don’t ever pay the Ex-mas rate—and then they even let their ma-monkey fuck her. Jigana, talk with that gal. Or don’t you want to complete school? She can’t just give you uniform only.” I nodded. I had already tried on the uniform eight times in two days, anxious to resume school. The green-and-white checked shirt and olive-green shorts had become wrinkled. Now I reached into the carton and stroked a piece of the uniform that stuck out of the jumble. “Why are you messing with this beautiful uniform?” Mama said. “Patience, boy. School is just around the corner.” She dug to the bottom of the carton and buried the package. “Maisha likes your face,” she whispered. “Please, Jigana, tell her you need more—shoes, P.T.A. fee, prep fee. We must to save all Ex-mas rate to educate you, first son. Tell her she must stop buying those fuunny fuunny designer clothes, those clothes smelling of dead white people, and give us the money.” As she said this, she started to pound angrily on the trunk. The trunk was a big obstruction. It was the only piece of furniture we had with a solid and definite shape. Maisha had brought it home a year ago, and always ordered us to leave the shack before she would open it. None of us knew what its secret contents were, except for a lingering perfume. It held for us both suspense and consolation, and these feelings grew each time Maisha came back with new things. Sometimes, when Maisha did not come back for a long time, our anxiety turned the trunk into an assurance of her return. “Malaya! Prostitute! She doesn’t come and I break the box tonight,” Mama hissed, spitting on the combination lock and shaking the trunk until we could hear its contents knocking about. She always took her anger out on the trunk in Maisha’s absence. I reached out to grab her hands. “You pimp!” she growled. “You support the malaya.” “It’s not her fault. It’s musungu tourists.” “You better begin school before she runs away.” “I must to report her to you.” “I must to bury you and your motor-mouth in this box.” We struggled. Her long nails slashed my forehead, and blood trickled down. But she was still shaking the trunk. Turning around, I charged at her and bit her right thigh. I could not draw blood because I had lost my front milk teeth. She let go and reeled into the bodies of our sleeping family. Atieno let out one short eerie scream, as if in a nightmare, then went back to sleep. Baba groaned and said he did not like his family members fighting during Ex-mas. “You bite my wife because of that whore?” he groaned. “The cane will discipline you in the morning. I must to personally ask your headmaster to get a big cane for you.” A welt had fruited up on Mama’s thigh. She rolled up her dress and started massaging it, her lips moving in silent curses. Then, to punish me, she took the kabire she had poured for me and applied it to the swelling. She pushed the mouth of the bottle against it, expecting the fumes to ease the hurt. When Mama had finished nursing herself, she returned the bottle to me. Since it was still potent kabire, I did not sniff it straight but put my lips around the mouth of the bottle and smoked slowly, as if it were an oversized joint of bhang, Indian hemp. First it felt as if I had no saliva in my mouth, and then the fumes began to numb my tongue. The heat climbed steadily into my throat, tickling my nostrils like an aborted sneeze. I cooled off a bit and blew away the vapor. Then I sucked at it again and swallowed. My eyes watered, my head began to spin, and I dropped the bottle. When I looked up, Mama had poured some kabire for herself and was sniffing it. She and Baba hardly ever took kabire. “Kabire is for children only,” Baba’s late father used to admonish them whenever he caught them eying our glue. This Ex-mas we were not too desperate for food. In addition to the money that begging with Baby had brought us, Baba had managed to steal some wrapped gifts from a party given for machokosh families by an N.G.O., whose organizers were so stingy that they served fruit juice like shots of hard liquor. He had dashed to another charity party and traded in the useless gifts—plastic cutlery, picture frames, paperweights, insecticides—for three cups of rice and zebra intestines, which a tourist hotel had donated. We’d had these for dinner on Ex-mas Eve. “Happee, happee Ex-mas, tarling!” Mama toasted me after a while, rubbing my head. “You, too, Mama.” “Now where are these daughters? Don’t they want to do Ex-mas prayer?” She sniffed the bottle till her eyes receded, her face pinched like the face of a mad cow. “And the govament banned this sweet thing. Say thanks to the neighbors, boy. Where did they find this hunger-killer?” Sometimes she released her lips from the bottle with a kissing sound. As the night thickened, her face began to swell, and she kept pouting and biting her lips to check the numbness. They turned red—they looked like Maisha’s when she had on lipstick—and puffed up. “Mama? So, what can we give the neighbors for Ex-mas?” I asked, remembering that we had not bought anything for our friends. My question jerked her back. “Petrol . . . we will buy them a half litre of petrol,” she said, and belched. Her breath smelled of carbide, then of sour wine. When she looked up again our eyes met, and I lowered mine in embarrassment. In our machokosh culture, petrol was not as valuable as glue. Any self-respecting street kid should always have his own stock of kabire. “O.K., son, next year . . . we get better things. I don’t want police business this year—so don’t start having ideas.” We heard two drunks stumbling toward our home. Mama hid the bottle. They stood outside announcing that they had come to wish us a Merry Ex-mas. “My husband is not here!” Mama lied. I recognized the voices. It was Bwana Marcos Wako and his wife, Cecilia. Baba had owed them money for four years. They came whenever they smelled money, and Baba had to take off for a few days. When Baby was born, we pawned three-quarters of his clothing to defray the debts. A week before Ex-mas, the couple had raided us, confiscating Baba’s working clothes in the name of debt servicing. I quickly covered the trunk with rags and reached into my pocket, tightening my grip around the rusty penknife I carried about. Mama and I stood by the door. Bwana Wako wore his trousers upside down, belted across his forehead; the legs, flailing behind him, were tied into knots and stuffed with ugali flour, which he must have got from a street party. Cecilia wore only her jacket and her rain boots. “Ah, Mama Jigana-ni Ex-mas!” the husband said. “Forget the money. Happee Ex-mas!” “We hear Jigana is going to school,” the wife said. “Who told you?” Mama said warily. “Me, I don’t like rumors.” They turned to me. “Happee to resume school, boy?” “Me am not going to school,” I lied to spare my tuition money. “Kai, like mama like son!” the wife said. “You must to know you are the hope of your family.” “Mama Jigana, listen,” the man said. “Maisha came to us last week. Good, responsible gal. She begged us to let bygone be bygone so Jigana can go to school. We say forget the money—our Ex-mas gift to your family.” “You must to go far with education, Jigana,” the wife said, handing me a new pen and pencil. “Mpaka university!” Mama laughed, jumping into the flooded alley. She hugged them and allowed them to come closer to our shack. They staggered to our door, swaying like masqueraders on stilts. “Asante sana!” I thanked them. I uncorked the pen and wrote all over my palms and smelled the tart scent of the Hero HB pencil. Mama wedged herself between them and the shack to insure that they did not pull it down. Baba whispered to us from inside, ready to slip away, “Ha, they told me the same thing last year. You watch and see, tomorrow they come looking for me. Make them sign paper this time.” Mama quickly got them some paper and they signed, using my back as a table. Then they staggered away, the stuffed trousers bouncing along behind them. Mama began to sing Maisha’s praises and promised never to pound on her trunk again. Recently, Maisha had taken the twins to the barber’s and Baby to Kenyatta National Hospital for a checkup. Now she had got our debt cancelled. I felt like running out to search for her in the streets. I wanted to hug her and laugh till the moon dissolved. I wanted to buy her Coke and chapati, for sometimes she forgot to eat. But when Mama saw me combing my hair she said nobody was allowed to leave until we had finished saying the Ex-mas prayer. Ihung out with Maisha some nights on the street, and we talked about fine cars and lovely Nairobi suburbs. We’d imagine what it would be like to visit the Masai Mara Game Reserve or to eat roasted ostrich or crocodile at the Carnivore, like tourists. “You beautiful!” I had told Maisha one night on Koinange Street, months before that fateful Ex-mas. “Ah, no, me am not.” She laughed, pulling down her jeans miniskirt. “Stop lying.” “See your face?” “Kai, who sent you?” “And you bounce like models.” “Yah, yah, yah. Not tall. Nose? Too short and big. No lean face or full lips. No firsthand designer clothes. Not daring or beautiful like Naema. Perfume and mascara are not everything.” “Haki, you? Beautiful woman,” I said, clicking my fingers. “You will be tall tomorrow.” “You are asking me out?” she said in jest, and struck a pose. She made faces as if she were playing with the twins and said, “Be a man, do it the right way.” I shrugged and laughed. “Me, I have no shilling, big gal.” “I will discount you, guy.” “Stop it.” “Oh, come on,” she said, and pulled me into a hug. Giggling, we began walking, our strides softened by laughter. Everything became funny. We couldn’t stop laughing at ourselves, at the people around us. When my sides began to ache and I stopped, she tickled my ribs. We laughed at the gangs of street kids massed together in sound sleep. Some gangs slept in graded symmetry. Others slept in freestyle. Some had a huge waterproof above their piles to protect them from the elements. Others had nothing. We laughed at a group of city taxi-drivers huddled together, warming themselves with cups of chai and fiery political banter while waiting for the Akamba buses to arrive with passengers from Tanzania and Uganda. Occasionally we’d see the anxious faces of these visitors in the old taxis, bracing for what would be the most dangerous twenty minutes of their twelve-hour journeys, fearful of being robbed whenever the taxis slowed down. We were not afraid of the city at night. It was our playground. At times like this, it was as if Maisha had forgotten her job and all she wanted to do was laugh and playact. “You? Nice guy,” Maisha said. “Lie.” I pulled at her handbag. “You will be a big man tomorrow. . . .” She dashed past me suddenly to wave down a chauffered Volvo. It stopped right in front of her, the glass rolling down. A man in the back seat inspected her and shook his bald head. He beckoned a taller girl from the cluster jostling behind her, trying to fit their faces in the window. Maisha ran to a silver Mercedes-Benz wagon, but the owner picked a shorter girl. “Someday, I must to find a real job,” Maisha said, sighing, when she came back. “What job, gal?” “I want to try full time.” “Wapi?” She shrugged. “Mombasa? Dar?” I shook my head. “Bad news, big gal. How long?” “I don’t know. Ni maisha yangu, guy, it’s my life. I’m thinking, full time will allow me to pay your fees and also save for myself. I will send money through the church for you. I’ll quit the brothel when I save a bit. I don’t want to stand on the road forever. Me myself must to go to school one day. . . .” The words died in her throat. She pursed her lips, folded her hands across her chest, and rocked from side to side. She did not rush to any more cars. “We won’t see you again?” I said. “No, thanks. If you enter brothel, me I won’t go to school.” “Then I get to keep my money, ha-ha. Without you, they won’t see my shilling in that house. Never.” She saw my face, stopped suddenly, then burst into giggles. “I was kidding you, guy, about the brothel. Just kidding, O.K.” She tickled me, pulling me toward Moi Avenue. I held her hand tightly. Prostitutes fluttered about under streetlights, dressed like winged termites. “Maisha, our parents—” She turned sharply, her fists balled. “Shut up! You shame me, you rat. Leave me alone. Me am not your mate. You can’t afford me!” Other girls turned and stared at us, giggling. Maisha strode away. It had been a mistake to mention our parents in front of the other girls, to let them know that we were related. And I shouldn’t have called her by her real name. I cried all the way home because I had hurt her. She ignored me for weeks. After Mama stopped celebrating the end of our debt, she fished out two little Uchumi Supermarket waterproof bags from the carton and smoothed them out as if they were rumpled socks. She put them over her canvas shoes, tying the handles around her ankles in little bows. Then she walked out into the flood, her winged galoshes scooping the water like a duck’s feet. She started to untie our bag of utensils and food, which was leaning against the shop, her eyes searching for a dry spot to set up the stove, to warm some food for the twins. But the rain was coming down too heavily now, and after a while she gave up. “Jigana, so did you see those Maisha’s ma-men?” she asked. “There were three white men, plus driver. Tall, old men in knickers and tennis shoes. I shook hands with them. Beautiful-beautiful motorcar. . . . I even pinched that monkey.” “Motorcar? They had a motorcar? Imachine a motorcar to pick up my daughter.” She stretched forward and held my arms, smiling. “You mean my daughter is big like that?” Otieno woke up with a start. He stood groggily on the cushions, then he climbed over Mama’s legs, levered himself over me with his hand on my head, and landed in the flood outside the shack in a crouch. He began to lower thin spools of shit into the water, whiffs of heat unwrapping into the night, the cheeks of his buttocks rouged by the cold. When Otieno returned to the shack, he sat on Mama’s legs and brought out her breast and sucked noisily. With one hand, he grabbed a toy Maisha had bought for him, rattling its maracas on Mama’s bony face. She was still looking ragged and underweight, even though she’d stayed in the hospital to have her diet monitored after Baby graduated from the incubator. Mama took out our family Bible, which we had inherited from Baba’s father, to begin our Ex-mas worship. The front cover had peeled off, leaving a dirty page full of our relatives’ names, dead and living. She read them out. Baba’s late father had insisted that all the names of our family be included in recognition of the instability of street life. She began with her father, who had been killed by cattle rustlers, before she ran away to Nairobi and started living with Baba. She called out Baba’s mother, who came to Nairobi when her village was razed because some politicians wanted to redraw tribal boundaries. One day she disappeared forever into the city with her walking stick. Mama invoked the names of our cousins Jackie and Solo, who settled in another village, and wrote to us through our church, asking our parents to send them school fees. I looked forward to telling them about the lit parks and the beautiful cars of Nairobi as soon as my teachers taught me how to write letters. She called out her brother, Uncle Peter, who had shown me how to shower in the city fountains without being whipped by the officials. He was shot by the police in a case of mistaken identity; the mortuary gave his corpse to a medical school because we could not pay the bill. She called Baba’s second cousin Mercy, the only secondary-school graduate among our folks. She had not written to us since she fell in love with a Honolulu tourist and eloped with him. Mama called Baba’s sister, Auntie Mama, who, until she died two years ago of a heart attack, had told us stories and taught us songs about our ancestral lands every evening, in a sweet, nostalgic voice. The sky rumbled. “Bwana, I hope Naema put clothes on Baby before she left,” Mama said to me, the middle of her sentence wobbling because Otieno had bitten her. “She put Baby in waterproof paper bags. Then sweater.” Otieno, having satisfied himself, woke up Atieno, who took over the other breast, for they had divided things up evenly between them. Atieno sucked until she slept again, and Mama placed her gently near Otieno and began to shake Baba until he opened one eye. His weak voice vibrated because his face was jammed into the wall: “Food.” “No food, tarling,” Mama told him. “We must to finish to call the names of our people.” “You’ll be calling my name if I don’t eat.” “Here is food—New Suntan Shoe kabire.” She reached out and collected the plastic bottle from me. “It can kill your stomach till next week.” “All the children are here?” “Baby and Naema still out. Last shift . . . and Maisha.” “Ah, there is hope. Maisha will bring an Ex-mas feast for us.” “Ex-mas is school fees, remember?” Mama groped inside the carton again. She unearthed a dirty candle, pocked by grains of sand. She lit the candle and cemented it to the trunk with its wax. Taking the Bible, she began to read a psalm in Kiswahili, thanking God for the gift of Baby and the twins after two miscarriages. She praised God for blessing Maisha with white clients at Ex-mas. Then she prayed for Fuunny Eyes, the name we had given to the young Japanese volunteer who unfailingly dropped shillings in our begging plate. She wore Masai tire sandals and necklaces that held her neck like a noose, and never replied to our greetings or let our eyes meet hers. She prayed for our former landlord in the Kibera slums, who evicted us but hadn’t seized anything when we could not pay the rent. Now Mama asked God to bless Simba with many puppies. “Christ, you Ex-mas son, give Jigana a big, intelligent head in school!” she concluded. “Have mercy on us,” I said. “Holy Mary, Mama Ex-mas . . . ” “Pray for us.” It was drizzling again when Naema returned with Baby. He was asleep. Naema’s jeans, mutumba loafers, and braided hair dribbled water, her big eyes red from crying. Usually, she sauntered in singing a Brenda Fassie song, but tonight she plodded in deflated. She handed the money over to Mama, who quickly banked it in her purse. She also gave Mama a packet of pasteurized milk. It was half full, and Naema explained that she’d had to buy it to stop Baby from crying. Mama nodded. The milk pack was soggy and looked as if it would disintegrate. Mama took it carefully in her hands, like one receiving a certificate. When Naema brought out a half-eaten turkey drumstick, Mama grabbed her ears, thinking that she had bought it with the money she’d earned begging. Naema quickly explained that her new boyfriend had given it to her. This boy was a big shot in the street gang that controlled our area, a dreaded figure. Maisha and I detested him, but he liked Naema like his own tongue. Now Naema wriggled and fitted her lithe frame into the tangle on the floor, and began to weep silently. Mama pulled the blanket from the others and covered the girl’s feet, which had become wrinkled in the rain. “Maisha is moving out tomorrow,” Naema said. “Full time.” Mama’s face froze. No matter how rootless and cheap street life might be, you could still be broken by departures. I went outside and lay on the row of empty paint containers we had lined up along the shop’s wall, hiding my face in the crook of my arm. Guilt began to build in my guts. Maybe if I had joined a street gang Maisha would not have wanted to leave. I wouldn’t have needed money for school fees, and perhaps there would have been peace between Maisha and my parents. But my anger was directed at the musungu men, for they were the visible faces of my sister’s temptation. I wished I were as powerful as Naema’s boyfriend, or that I could recruit him. We could burn up their Jaguar. We could tie them up and give them the beating of their lives and take away all their papers. We could strip those musungu naked, as I had seen Naema’s friend do to someone who had hurt a member of his gang. Or we could at least kill and eat that monkey, or just cut off his mboro so he could never fuck anybody’s sister again. I removed my knife from my pocket and examined the blade carefully. The fact that it was very blunt and had dents did not worry me. I knew that if I stabbed with all my energy I would draw blood. After a while, my plans began to unravel. I realized that I would never be able to enlist Naema’s boyfriend. Naema herself would block the plan. In fact, until that night she had been taunting Maisha to move out, saying that if she were as old as Maisha she would have left home long ago. Besides, even if I fled to the Kibera slums, as soon as we touched the tourists the police would come and arrest my parents and dismantle our shack. They would take away Maisha’s trunk and steal her treasures. Baba started awake, as if a loud noise had hit him. “Is that Maisha?” he asked, closing his eyes again. “No, Maisha is working,” Mama said. “My Maisha commands musungu and motorcars!” she said, her good mood returning. “What? What musungu, tarling?” Baba asked, sitting up immediately, rubbing sleep and hunger from his eyes with the base of his palms. “White tourists,” Mama said. “Uh? They must to pay ma-dollar or euros. Me am family head. You hear me, woman?” “Yes.” “And no Honolulu business. What kind of motorcar were they driving?” “Jaguar,” I answered. “With driver. Baba, we should not allow Maisha to leave—” “Nobody is leaving, nobody. And shut up your animal mouth! You have wounded my wife! Until I break your teeth tomorrow, no opinion from you. No nothing. Did you thank the ma-men for me?” “No,” I said. “Aiiee! Jigana, where are your manners? Did you ask where they were going? Motorcar number?” “No, Baba.” “So if they take her to Honolulu what do I do? Maybe we should send you to a street gang. Boy, have you not learned to grab opportunities. Is this how you will waste school fees in January? Poor Maisha.” He squinted incredulously, and lines of doubt kinked up his massive forehead. He pursed his lips, and anger quickened his breath. But that night I stood my ground. “I don’t want school anymore, Baba,” I said. “Coward, shut up. That one is a finished matter.” “No.” “What do you mean by no? You want to be a pocket thief like me . . . my son? My first son? You can’t be useless as the gals. Wallai!” “Me, I don’t want school.” “Your mind is too young to think. As we say, ‘The teeth that come first are not used in chewing.’ As long as you live here, your Baba says school.” “La hasha.” “You telling me never? Jigana!” He looked at Mama. “He doesn’t want school? St. Jude Thaddaeus!” “Bwana, this boy has grown strong-head,” Mama said. “See how he is looking at our eyes. Insult!” Baba stood up suddenly, his hands shaking. I didn’t cover my cheeks with my hands to protect me from his slap or spittle, as I usually did when he was angry. I was ready for him to kill me. My family was breaking up because of me. He stood there, trembling with anger, confused. Mama patted his shoulders to calm him down. He brushed her aside and went outside to cool off. I monitored him through a hole in the wall. Soon he was cursing himself aloud for drinking too much and sleeping through Ex-mas Day and missing the chance to meet the tourists. As his mind turned to Maisha’s good fortune, he began to sing “A Jaguar is a Jaguar is a Jaguar” to the night, leaping from stone to stone, tracing the loose cobbles that studded the floodwater like the heads of stalking crocodiles in a river. In the sky, some of the tall city buildings were branded by lights left on by forgetful employees, and a few shopping centers wore the glitter of Ex-mas; flashing lights ascended and descended, like angels on Jacob’s dream ladder. The long city buses, Baba’s hunting grounds, had stopped for the night. As the streets became emptier, cars drove faster through the floods, kicking up walls of water, which collapsed on our shack. Back inside, Baba plucked his half-used miraa stick from the rafter and started chewing. He fixed his eyes on the trunk. A mysterious smile dribbled out of the corners of his mouth. Eventually, the long stick of miraa subsided into a formless sponge in his mouth. His spitting was sharp, and arced across the room and out the door. Suddenly, his face brightened. “Hakuna Matata!” he said. Then he dipped into the carton and came up with a roll of wire, and started lashing the wheels of the trunk to the props of our shack. For a moment, it seemed he might be able to stop Maisha from going away. Mama tried to discourage him from tying down the trunk. “Bwanaaa . . . stop it! She will leave if she finds you manga-mangaring with her things.” “Woman, leave this business to me,” he said, rebuking her. “I’m not going to sit here and let any Honolulus run away with our daughter. They must marry her properly.” “You should talk,” Mama said. “Did you come to my father’s house for my hand?” “Nobody pays for trouble,” Baba said. “You’re trouble. If I just touch you, you get pregnant. If I even look at you—twins, just like that. Too, too ripe.” “Me am always the problem,” Mama said, her voice rising. “All me am saying is we must to treat the tourist well.” Atieno was shivering; her hand was poking out of the shack. Baba yanked it back in and stuck her head through the biggest hole in the middle of our blanket. That was our way of insuring that the family member who most needed warmth maintained his place in the center of the blanket. Baba grabbed Otieno’s legs and pushed them through two holes on the fringe of the blanket. “Children of Jaguar,” he whispered into their ears. “Ex-mas ya Jag-uar.” He tried to tuck Atieno and Otieno properly into the blanket, turning them this way and that, without success. Then he became impatient and rolled them toward each other like a badly wrapped meat roll. Their heads were facing opposite directions, their feet in each other’s face, their knees folded and tucked into each other’s body—a blanket womb. Mama reminded him to wedge the door, but he refused. He wanted us to wait for Maisha. He winked at me as if I were the co-sentry of our fortune. Mama handed Baby to me and lay down. I sat there, sniffing kabire, until I became drunk. My head swelled, and our roofwork relaxed and shook, then melted into the sky. I was floating. My bones were inflammable. My thoughts went out like electric currents into the night, its counter-currents running into each other, and, in a flash of sparks, I was hanging on the door of the city bus, going to school. I hid my uniform in my bag so that I could ride free like other street children. Numbers and letters of the alphabet jumped at me, scurrying across the page as if they had something to say. The flares came faster and faster, blackboards burned brighter and brighter. In the beams of sunlight leaking through the holes in the school roof, I saw the teacher writing around the cracks and patches on the blackboard like a skillful matatu driver threading his way through our pothole-ridden roads. Then I raced down our lopsided, bald field with an orange for a rugby ball, jumping the gullies and breaking tackles. I was already the oldest kid in my class. Mama touched my shoulders and relieved me of the infant. She stripped Baby of the plastic rompers, cleaned him up, and put him in a nappy for the night. With a cushion wrested from Naema, who was sleeping, Mama padded the top of the carton into a cot. After placing Baby in it, she straightened the four corners of the carton and then folded up our mosquito net and hung it over them. It had been donated by an N.G.O., and Baba had not had a chance to pawn it yet. Then Mama wrapped her frame around the carton and slept. I woke Baba up when Maisha returned, before dawn. He had been stroking his rosary beads, dozing and tilting till his head upset the mosquito netting. Mama had to continually elbow or kick him off. And each time he opened his eyes with a practiced smile, thinking the Jaguar hour had arrived. The rain had stopped, but clouds kept the night dark. The city had gorged itself on the floods, and its skin had swelled and burst in places. The makeshift tables and stalls of street markets littered the landscape, torn and broken, as if there had been a bar fight. Garbage had spread all over the road: dried fish, stationery, trinkets, wilted green vegetables, plastic plates, wood carvings, underwear. Without the usual press of people, the ill-lit streets sounded hollow, amplifying the smallest of sounds. Long after a police car had passed, it could be heard negotiating potholes, the officers harassing and extorting their bribes—their Ex-mas kitu kidogo—from the people who could not afford to go to their up-country villages for the holidays. Maisha returned in an old Renault 16 taxi. She slouched in the back while the driver got out. Kneeling and applying pliers to open the back door, the driver let her out of the car. Baba’s sighs of disappointment were as loud as the muezzin who had begun to call Nairobi to prayer. My sister stepped out, then leaned on the car, exhausted. There were bags of food on the seat. She gestured at Baba to go away. He ignored her. “So where is our Jaguar and musungu?” Baba asked the taxi-driver, peering into the shabby car as if it might be transformed at any moment. “What Jaguar? What musungu?” the driver asked, monitoring Maisha’s movements. “The nini Jaguar . . . where is my daughter coming from?” Baba asked him. “Me, I can’t answer you that question,” he told Baba, and pointed to his passenger. She bent in front of the only functioning headlamp to count out the fare. Her trousers were so tight that they had crinkled on her thighs and pockets; she struggled to get to the notes without breaking her artificial nails, which curved inward like talons. Yesterday, her hair had been low-cut, gold, wavy, and crisp from a fresh perm. Now it stood up in places and lay flat in others, revealing patches of her scalp, which was bruised from the chemicals. It was hard to distinguish peeling face powder from damaged skin. To rid herself of an early outbreak of adolescent pimples, she had bleached her face into an uneven lightness. Her eyelids and the skin under her eyes had reacted the worst to the assorted creams she was applying, and tonight her fatigue seemed to have seeped under the burns, swelling her eyes. The driver could not easily roll up the window. He reached out to guard the food bags, his collateral. Baba brought out a six-inch nail and went for the worn tires. “What dawa have you given my daughter? She always comes home strong.” The driver crumpled immediately, his pleas laden with fright. “Mzee, my name is Karume. Paul Kinyanjui wa Karume. . . . Me, I be an upright Kenyan. I fear God.” “And you want to steal my daughter’s bags?” “No. Please, take the bags. Please,” the man begged, trying to restrain Baba from bursting his tires. “Aiie, Baba. You shame me. Shut up,” Maisha said weakly, pushing the money toward the driver. Baba collected the bags and strolled from the road, his nose full of good smells, until he suddenly broke into a run, to untie the trunk before Maisha reached the shack. The driver got into his car and was about to put the money into his breast pocket when he started frisking himself. Baba stood watching from the door of the shack. Soon it was as if the driver had soldier ants in his clothes. He unzipped his pockets, then zipped them again quickly, as if the thief were still lurking. He removed his coat, then his shirt, and searched them. He recounted his itinerary to the skies with eyes closed, his index finger wagging at invisible stars. He searched his socks, then he got down on all fours, scouring the wet ground. He dabbed at the sweat, or tears, running down his face. “Where is my money?” he said to Maisha, finally finding his voice. “Haki, it was in my pocket now, now.” Maisha charged forward and screeched at Baba until his stern face crumbled into a sheepish grin. He returned the fat wad of notes, giggling like the twins. The driver thanked her curtly, brushing his clothes with trembling hands. As soon as he’d reconnected the ignition wires to start the car, he creaked off, his horn blaring, his headlamp pointing up and to the left like an unblinking eye. Maisha staggered into the shack, holding her perilously high heels over her shoulders. Mama had made room for her and the bags, and had sprayed our home with insecticide to discourage mosquitoes. My siblings inside started to cough. As Maisha came in, Mama stood aside like a maid, wringing her hands. I could not look Maisha in the eye and did not know what to say. “Good night, Maisha,” I blurted out. She stopped, her tired body seized by shock. She searched my parents’ faces before tracing the voice to me. “Who told you to talk?” she said. “You leave full time, I run away. No school.” “You are going to school,” Maisha said. “Tuition is ready.” “Run away? Jigana, shut up,” Baba said. “You think you are family head now? ‘All are leaders’ causes riots. Stupid, mtu dufu! Nobody is leaving.” Maisha glared at us, and we all turned our backs to her as she opened the trunk to take out a blanket. The sweet smell of her Jaguar adventures filled the shack, overpowering the heavy scent of insecticide. Though her arrivals always reminded us that life could be better, tonight I hated the perfume. “Me and your mama don’t want ‘full time,’ Maisha,” Baba said, picking his nails. “We refuse.” “Our daughter, things will get better,” Mama said. “Thanks for cancelling our debt!” “You are welcome, Mama,” Maisha said. Mama’s face lit up with surprise, she was so used to being ignored. She opened her mouth to say something, but nothing came out. Finally, she sobbed the words “Asante, Maisha, asante for everything!” and bowed repeatedly, her hands held before her, as if in prayer. The women looked into each other’s eyes in a way I had never seen before. They hugged and held on as if their hands were ropes that tied their two bodies together. In spite of the cold, beads of sweat broke out on Mama’s forehead and her fingers trembled as she helped Maisha undo her earrings and necklace. Mama gently lay her down. I believed that Mama might have been able to persuade her to stay, but then Baba signalled to Mama to keep quiet so that he could be the negotiator. “Our daughter,” Baba said, “you need to rest and think carefully. As our people say, north ama south, east ama west, home the best. . . .” “Maisha, no school for me!” I said. “I told Mama and Baba. They will return fee to you.” “Jigana, please, please, don’t argue,” Maisha said. “Even you. You cannot even pity me this night? Just for a few hours?” My parents sat outside, on the paint containers. I stood by the wall, away from them. I wanted to see Maisha one more time before she disappeared. Fog brought the dew down, thickening the darkness and turning the security lights into distant halos. We could hear Maisha twist and turn on the floor, cursing the limbs of her siblings and swatting at the mosquitoes. It was as if we were keeping a vigil of her last night with us. We were restless, the silence too heavy for us. Baba mumbled, blaming himself for not going more often to sweep the church premises. He agreed with Mama that if he had swept daily, instead of every other day, St. Joseph the Worker would have bettered our lot. Mama snapped at him, because Baba had always told her that he was not interested in St. Joseph’s favor but in a clean place for people to worship. Then Baba blamed her for no longer attending the kanu slum rallies to earn a few shillings. The night degenerated into growls and hisses. I preferred the distraction of the quarrel to the sound of Maisha’s uneasy breathing. When she clapped one more time and turned over, Mama couldn’t stand it anymore. She rushed inside, took the mosquito net off the carton, and tied it to the rafters so that my sister was inside it. She sprayed the place again and brought Baby out to breast-feed. The coughing got worse. Baba tore down some of the walls to let in air. Since the wind had subsided, it was of no use. He picked up the door and used it as a big fan to whip air into the shack. In the morning, Atieno and Otieno came out first. They looked tired, and were sniffling from the insecticide. They stood before us, spraying the morning with yellow urine, sneezing and whimpering. The streets began to fill. The street kids were up and had scattered into the day like chickens feeding. Some moved about groggily, already drunk on kabire. One recounted his dreams to others at the top of his voice, gesticulating maniacally. Another was kneeling and trembling with prayer, his eyes shut as if he would never open them again. One man screamed, and pointed at two kids, who were holding his wallet. No one was interested. His pocket was ripped to the zipper, leaving a square hole in the front of his trousers. He pulled out his shirt to hide his nakedness, then hurried away, an awkward smile straining his face. There was no sun, only a slow ripening of the sky. The twins started to wail and to attack Mama’s breasts. Baba spanked them hard. They sat on the ground with pent-up tears they were afraid to shed. Naema broke the spell. She came out and sat with me on the containers, grabbed my hands, and tried to cheer me up. “You are too sad, Jigana,” she said. “You want to marry the gal? Remember, it’s your turn to take Baby out.” “Leave me alone.” “Marry me, then—me am still here.” She stuck out her tongue at me. “I’m your sister, too—more beautiful. Guy, do me photo trick . . . smile.” She was well rested and had slept off her initial shock at Maisha’s departure. Now she was herself again, taunting and talkative, her dimples deep and perfect. “You all must to let Maisha go.” “And you?” I said. “You only listen to Maisha.” “I’m big gal now, guy. Breadwinner. If you want school, I pay for you!” She blew me a kiss in the wind. Maisha’s creams were already lightening her ebony face. Before I could say anything, Naema erupted with mad laughter and ran into the shack. She almost knocked Baba down as she burst out with the bags of food we had forgotten. She placed them on the ground and tore into them, filling the morning with hope, beckoning all of us on. Baba bit into a chicken wing. Mama took a leg. The rest of us dug into the sour rice, mashed potatoes, salad, hamburgers, pizzas, spaghetti, and sausages. We drank flat Coke and melted ice cream all mixed up. With her teeth, Naema opened bottles of Tusker and Castle beer. At first, we feasted in silence, on our knees, looking up frequently to monitor one another’s intake like squirrels. None of us thought to inflate the balloons or open the cards that Maisha had brought. Then the twins fell over on their backs, laughing and vomiting. As soon as they were done, they went straight back to eating, their mouths pink and white and green from ice cream and beer. We could not get them to keep quiet. A taxi pulled up and Maisha came out of the shack, dragging her trunk behind her. Our parents paused as the driver helped her put it into the car. My mother began to cry. Baba shouted at the streets. I sneaked inside and poured myself some fresh kabire and sniffed. I got my exercise book from the carton and ripped it into shreds. I brought my pen and pencil together and snapped them, the ink spurting into my palms like blue blood. I got out my only pair of trousers and two shirts and put them on, over my clothes. I avoided the uniform package. Sitting where the trunk had been, I wept. It was like a newly dug grave. I sniffed hastily, tilting the bottle up and down until the gum came close to my nostrils. As the car pulled away with Maisha, our mourning attracted kids from the gangs. They circled the food, and I threw away the bottle and joined my family again. We struggled to stuff the food into our mouths, to stuff the bags back inside the shack, but the kids made off with the balloons and the cards. I hid among a group of retreating kids and slipped away. I ran through traffic, scaled the road divider, and disappeared into Nairobi. My last memory of my family was of the twins burping and giggling. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
A Mouthful of Cut Glass	The house where Neil was born, in 1952, had been at the center of Birmingham, in a Victorian slum that was knocked down a few years later. Nobody lived there now; there were only roads and office blocks, and the people who’d lived in the slums had been moved out to the new estates that ringed the city. Neil told Sheila that the house he was born in had had a crack in the outside wall that let the rain and wind through, so that for the years he lived there he and his sister had had to sleep in his mum and dad’s room, because they couldn’t use the bedroom upstairs. His sister had slept in a cot until she was six; he had slept in the bed with his parents. He told Sheila that the house had shared a yard at the back with several other houses in the terrace; there were outside toilets and a brick washhouse with a coal-fired boiler and a mangle where the women did their laundry. The house had been condemned by the council the whole time he lived there, but the family had had to wait for the authorities to find them somewhere else to live. At university in Bristol in 1972, Neil didn’t have to be ashamed of these things or hide them. Because of the politics of the time, the student politics especially, his origins were even glamorous. It was the children of bankers and managing directors who had to apologize for their upbringing, and practice roughening their too refined accents. Sheila had grown up, with eight brothers and sisters, in a vicarage in Suffolk; vicars’ daughters were in a category so impossibly quaint and comical that it hardly seemed worth despising. Neil could have played on his working-class credentials much more than he did. Sheila had never heard him tell anyone else, for instance, about the crack in the wall. This reserve, like a strength withheld, was part of what made her love him quite desperately. He was very clever and he had absolute opinions; friends glanced quickly at him after they spoke, to see what he thought. Sheila had never expected to love someone who was two inches shorter than she was. It was a surprise to discover how her desire could attach itself to the aura of Neil’s power and not to the particulars of his face and body, which in her mental picture of him were always blurred. Although he wasn’t fat, he was rather soft and shapeless; his walk was shambling and he hid behind his long brown hair. When he pushed the hair back, his face was round, sweet like a girl’s. Yet just the thought of the quick, small, almost prim smile that flickered open in his expression when he was amused made Sheila sick with longing; it touched her more nakedly even than when he made love to her, because he did that with irony, holding himself back. In the autumn of her second year, Neil took her home for a weekend to meet his family. He hadn’t been especially keen to do this. He’d warned her that she would be bored, that his parents would make a big fuss, but Sheila had wheedled at him until he gave way. His family didn’t have a telephone; he left a message with the neighbors. She braced herself then for something dark and raw, something that differed definitively from her own past. Whenever she remembered the vicarage she felt coilings of shame at the meanness of her life there. For all her family’s crowded closeness, neither her parents nor her siblings were any good at intimacy; they communicated in evasive codes, fumbling and deflecting contact. She prepared a perfect openness for her visit to Neil’s home, ready to offer up her real self at last. They caught a bus from the coach station out to Northfield and then walked up through the estate. Rows of low gray houses curved behind open grass spaces, their front doors all painted the same red. Children were playing in the streets. A man was cutting a hedge with shears in a front garden. The place wasn’t pretty, exactly, but it was neat and respectable. This took Sheila by surprise. She realized that although she knew that Neil’s family had moved out of the slums when he was a child, she had gone on imagining him pressed upon by frowning Victorian concentrations of population. Neil seemed relaxed enough; she had been afraid that her difference might embarrass him on his home ground. She’d expected him to move more self-consciously here, where he might be known and recognized, but he didn’t lift his head to look out for old friends or greet them. He must have walked these streets with the same absorption as a schoolboy, all those years when he was taking the bus seven miles every day to the grammar school in town, where he’d got a free place, with the briefcase that his parents had proudly bought for him, full of the books that were going to educate him out of the estate. “Clover Close,” he said merrily. “Grassymead Lane. Oak Grove. Hazelbush Way. You’d almost think you were in the Forest of Arden if you closed your eyes. Except that real country addresses never sound anything like that. The test is if the name is as plain as possible, then you know it’s the real thing. The ruling classes live in places called Old Hall. Stone House. Long End. The Rectory.” Sheila’s home was called the Rectory, and it was in the country, but nowhere like the Forest of Arden. It was in a bleak, poor village in East Anglia, where the red brick rectory was the grandest building after the church. Neil had said once that his dad, who was a tool-setter at Lucas Engineering, probably earned more than hers; she had no idea if he was right. Neil’s dad, Dennis, stood waiting for them in his shirtsleeves and braces at the front door, which was on the side of the house, opening onto the kitchen. He was compact and smiling, with a round face and thick peachy skin, rosy where the blood vessels were broken across his cheeks; his springy gray-black hair was slicked back with Brylcreem. He had the air of a man used to performing a comical role, pleasant and placating. When Neil’s mother, May, came crowding behind him in the doorway, wiping her hands on a tea towel, Sheila saw that she was small, too; Neil overtopped them both. Sheila was going to be the tallest person in the house. “All right, son?” Neil’s father grinned at him. “You can still find your way back home, then? Which bus did you get?” He held out a disproportionately huge hand to shake Sheila’s, and although he touched her with scrupulous gentleness she felt the strength in his grip. When Neil explained which bus they’d taken and how it had wound slowly around another estate for forty minutes, his father shook his head in disbelief: the eccentricity of the buses was clearly an old comfortable joke. In Bristol, Neil would have scorned such small talk. May, hanging back, kept her hands wrapped in the tea towel, nodding and smiling shyly; she had a miniature figure like a doll’s, with skinny little-girl legs gauche under her short skirt. Sandwiches made from sliced white bread, cut into perfect triangles, were set out on a counter on two plates, covered with paper torn from bread wrappers. “I said not to make a fuss,” Neil said to his mother, helping himself to a sandwich; May in a darting movement slapped at his hand, scolding him. “It’s all right,” he said, reassuring her. “Sheila hasn’t got any manners, either.” May blushed and couldn’t look at Sheila. “Don’t take any notice of him,” she said apologetically. “I don’t.” Sheila heard now that Neil’s Birmingham accent, which she had thought so strong, was softened and compromised, compared with the way his parents spoke. “She’ll have cooked us a meal, too,” Neil warned. “This is just to tide us over.” “I thought after your journey you’d want something. Shall I put the kettle on for tea?” The kitchen was too small to sit down in, so Neil and Sheila drank their tea on a sofa in the living room, in front of the gas fire turned up high. Sheila was so eager to please that she ate all the sandwiches on her plate, though she didn’t know how she was going to manage anything else. The shoe-box-shaped room was a little gem of neatness. There were antimacassars along the back of the sofa and on the back of every chair, a glass-fronted cabinet full of ornaments, framed photographs on the tiled mantelpiece of Neil and his sister, Chris, of Chris’s wedding. Neil had told Sheila that every Friday after his mother came back from her job at the bakery she stacked the furniture and rolled up all the carpets to wash the floor underneath. “Are you at the college with our Neil then, Sheila?” his father asked. Sheila was surprised that Neil hadn’t told them more about her. She didn’t talk to her parents much, but she was sure that they knew at least where Neil came from and what subject he was reading. She explained that she was reading classics, Latin and Greek. “Very interesting,” Dennis said. “Veni, vidi, vici.” “All that stuff. It’s the Greeks that I love. Revenge and passion, the war between the sexes, justice on earth. Of course, it’ll be no use to anyone after I’ve finished, but I don’t care. My dad read classics, too, so it’s in the family, I suppose.” “It’s brewing that’s in mine,” Neil’s mother said with a quick laugh. Sheila knew that May’s uncle and brothers worked at Davenports, the brewers; they had got Neil a job there over the summer. Neil ate only a couple of sandwiches, then he got out his cigarettes. “Go on, have one of mine, son,” his mother said, pushing a pack of Embassy Regals at him. “Do you smoke, Sheila?” Sheila didn’t. But she saw the moment of closeness it made between mother and son, heads bent together over the lighter, eyes narrowed and cheeks hollowed in inhalation. May had a little chrome-and-Formica smoking table at her end of the sofa, with an ashtray fixed in the center on a metal stalk. Although Neil’s face was round like his father’s, the wary sharpness in it made him resemble his mother more. Like Neil, May glanced evasively sideways at whomever she was speaking to. In his teen-age years, Sheila knew, Neil’s mother had been his confidante, talking late into the night with him and his friends when he brought them home. She seemed more assured with the cigarette in her hand; a social manner descended on her, mildly rakish and teasing. “I tried to get him to put something decent on, because you were coming.” May nodded at her husband. “But he goes his own way.” “She’s not bothered,” Dennis said. “Are you, Sheila?” “I’m so glad you didn’t.” Sheila smiled at them. “Look at us. We’re a real mess. We don’t want you to do anything different from what you do usually. Please.” She wondered what they thought of her clothes, a long crimson Indian skirt with braid around the hem and a crushed-velvet top embroidered with mirrors: these might be their idea of disgraceful rags. She hoped that her looks worked for her, though: her pale skin and long curling red-brown hair. She knew that Dennis was paying her subtle, harmless attentions because of them, without even knowing that he was doing it: spooning sugar into her tea and smoothing the creases out of her coat when he hung it up. “You’re right about Neil. He is a right mess. What about that hair? What does he think he looks like?” Dennis broke out suddenly. “Oh, leave him alone,” May said. “Why shouldn’t he have it how he wants? That’s how they all wear it now.” Neil smiled to himself: that private irrepressible smile of his, as if he couldn’t help being delighted at some comedy he was watching. Dennis didn’t seem to mean his complaint to offend anyone. He was a joker, an entertainer. You could see that he was the one to confront the public world, sheltering May, who had been brought up in an orphanage after her mother died and her father abandoned the family. Dennis took care to mention this more than once, as if the injustice of it still rankled with him. “Sheila lives in a rectory,” Neil offered. “Her dad’s a vicar in Suffolk.” “That’s nice,” May said. Sheila wanted to tell them about the rectory: how it was actually cold and bare and full of worn, scuffed furniture, not nearly as comfortable as this cozy room. But she didn’t, because she was afraid they wouldn’t believe her, and would think that she was patronizing them, trying to put them at ease because she found their home so poor. May and Dennis got out photographs from a coach trip they had taken to Scotland. Before university, Neil had gone with them on these trips. He had explained to Sheila how, now that so many holidaymakers were going abroad, the big old country hotels that had once been exclusively for the wealthy had begun to cater to working-class coach parties. She tried to imagine Neil spending his days with a coachload of middle-aged Brummies, set apart by his youth and education, flirted with by the older women, thinking his own thoughts, taking an informed interest in all the places they visited. She found the idea seductive. He had certainly travelled more widely in Britain than she ever had, and knew more about its history. In the photographs, Dennis was usually at the center, posed against some monument or other. Sheila was surprised that he and May relished so uncritically the grand style of their holiday: the food, the thick carpets, the ballrooms, the chandeliers, the free whisky at the distillery tour, the free soap in the bathrooms. She had expected that they would despise the luxuries of the rich, as she and Neil did. She felt a mixture of relief and deflation, as if she’d been cheated of something she’d braced herself to take on: some intensity of engagement, both scorching and testing. This is going to be easy, she thought. After all, they’re just easy sweet people. They put Sheila in Chris’s old bedroom, in a bed made up with nylon sheets and the same rough old Army blankets her mother had at home. There wasn’t much evidence of Chris left in the room: a framed embroidered picture of a squirrel, a hollow soapstone swan with a couple of hair grips in it on the dressing table. May assured Sheila that there was plenty of hot water because the immersion heater had been on all evening, but although Sheila rather longed for a bath, she didn’t want to keep everybody waiting for the bathroom. She cleaned her teeth quickly. Everything in here was scoured spotless. The only difference between May’s cheap thin towels and bathmat and the ones at home was that these had been cherished and ironed. Sheila undressed and slithered down between cold sheets, then lay awake listening to the life of the house subside—low-voiced exchanges of practicalities, the sound of a bolt being shot to. She imagined that she was hearing what Neil had heard all his life before he came to Bristol. She was in that phase of the relationship where everything associated with Neil seemed to her charged with excitement, even the smell of the clothes he took off and left lying on the floor, even his favorite tracks on albums that she would never have chosen for herself, the Grateful Dead and Captain Beefheart. She couldn’t sleep. After a while, when everything was quiet, she pushed back the sheets and knelt on the bed in her nightdress, looking out the window at the orange sodium lights and a flare of fire somewhere, perhaps from a factory chimney. Nearby she could make out the silhouetted dome of the lunatic asylum, which Neil had pointed out when he showed her the room—built in the nineteenth century in what had then been countryside. The air was chilly on her shoulders. The little house seemed to drop very quickly into cold once the gas fire was out, as if the walls were only a thin skin between the night and the lives inside. She pressed down the handle on the bedroom door very carefully, then crept along the landing, trying not to make any sound on the lino with her bare feet. She knew which room was Neil’s—she had looked into it earlier and seen his few books on a shelf, the only books in the house, and the old card table where he had done his homework for all those years. She slipped inside and soundlessly closed the door behind her. Neil reared up in bed; in the light from the street lamps she could see the mound of the blankets around his shoulders. Sheila cuddled quickly in beside him. She had let herself get thoroughly chilled, sitting looking out the window; now the heat of his body against hers under the blankets was like a flood. To her surprise he was wearing pajamas, which he never did in Bristol; they smelled of his mother’s washing. He hissed a protest at her frozen feet. “What are you doing?” he whispered in perplexity, grasping her by the shoulder. “We can’t do that here.” “I can’t sleep,” she complained. “I miss you.” She pressed herself close against the length of him, kissing his neck and his ears, trying to undo his pajama buttons. He pushed her off. “Sh-h-h. You can hear everything in this house. They’ll know.” “We could be so quiet.” “No.” “Then just let me sleep here. I’ll go back in the morning.” “They’ll know. Honestly. Believe me.” “O.K. Let me stay for ten minutes.” To show that he was sorry, he kissed her then, but warily, not wanting to be carried away into anything. Their mouths tasted of meat, from May’s casserole, which Sheila had eaten even though she was a vegetarian. With her lips she felt the growth of beard on Neil’s jawbone, not bristling but silky; he was giving out his kisses one by one, skeptically, like a bird pecking. This tension of thwarted longing—even when they were on their own and could do whatever they liked—was somehow the whole character of their relationship. Sheila was always frantic for the next thing she didn’t have from Neil; the sensation was as painful as wire spooled taut in her chest. She wondered sometimes what would become of them if the spool gave way and the tension slackened. After a while he stopped kissing her, and she knew that he really wasn’t going to let her stay. On the landing on the way back to her room, she heard May and Dennis talking in their bedroom. That was good; it meant that they weren’t lying awake listening to her move about. She took a couple of cautious steps and stood where she might be able to catch what they were saying. She had never had any compunction about eavesdropping, or reading other people’s letters or diaries; at home, with so many brothers and sisters, a certain level of surveillance had been almost necessary for survival—unless you sneaked, you never learned what was going on. Anyway, she always trusted herself to understand whatever she found out. She couldn’t really hear May and Dennis. May was angry about something. Dennis was soothing her: he rumbled, reasonable, sympathetic. They were both suppressing their voices, naturally, in this house of thin walls. May’s tone was different from the one she’d used all evening: hard and final. Sheila knew at once that this must be her real voice, the one she used with people she was comfortable with. “How can I talk to her?” Sheila heard May say then, quavering suddenly louder. “With that accent like a mouthful of cut glass?” Sheila’s heart heaved: the thud was so strong she even imagined that Dennis and May had heard it, until he rumbled again and she knew she was safe. It serves you right, she told herself immediately, not knowing quite what it was that she had deserved, or what for. Back in bed, she lay huddled with her knees pulled up inside her nightdress, the taste of the casserole meat rising from her stomach. She was going over the work that she had to do for the following week: a Latin prose translation, an essay on Medea. But as she fell into sleep she recognized all of a sudden that May had muddled two quite separate expressions. How stupid, Sheila thought. It has to be either “talking through a mouthful of plums” or “an accent like cut glass.” Not “a mouthful of cut glass.” She’s made nonsense of it. For a moment, however, she could imagine the sensation of chewing politely and sufferingly on a mouthful of broken crystal, tasting salty blood. Neil came to the rectory for a few days after Christmas. Sheila never quite got over the surprise of his being there, where he didn’t belong, among the leftbehind scenes of her childhood. She knew that she was reacting badly to the situation—as if she were blinking into a light that distracted her from seeing him fairly. She was irritated when he seemed to get along with her parents. At supper the first night, he talked with her father about the Knox family; Sheila’s family—the Culverts—was distantly related to them. A Culvert had been one of the first Evangelical bishops to be ordained in the Church of England: the old, sober kind of Evangelical, of course, not the new, guitar-playing excitable kind. Neil knew about the Ronald Knox translation of the Bible because his mother had been brought up a Catholic, and because he knew about so many things. Reverend Culvert told him about the Roman earthenware found in the scrubland, close to the river that the villagers called the Ditch; and about the carved flints that lay about in the fields for picking up. He sputtered mashed potato and gesticulated with pleasure at having someone informed to talk to. His own children kept their intellectual interests strictly apart from family mealtimes; they were embarrassed if their father ever veered from his habitual ironic distance. He was a tall thin man, whose head with its long earlobes was austere in repose, as if it were carved out of hard ancient wood; to see him so boyishly eager was somehow compromising, like watching a tortoise bob its skinny neck out from the decency of its shell. Sheila was aware of how gratifying it was to her father that someone like Neil, who came from a working-class background, should be doing so well. The Reverend, despite the disappointments he was daily faced with—the sullen village boys, their cursing, their fatalism—kept up, in the solitude of his study, at least, a whole set of hopeful ideals that had to do with justice and progress. Sheila winced when he gleamed with pleased surprise at Neil’s intelligent comments. She and her siblings had grown up with a horror that their father might sometime make a sermon out of the things that they did, or that happened to them. Sheila’s mother, peculiar and ravaged, was simply grateful that the conversation didn’t require her dutiful bolstering; she bowed her head low over her plate to eat, while the children exchanged veiled glances. The boys were horrible mimics: they would be mentally rehearsing Neil’s accent. The gammon was too salty, and the parsley sauce had been made from a packet; Sheila ate only the mash and the Brussels sprouts. Her mother’s cooking was loveless and institutional. An old book of fine recipes in French—a wedding present—sat unopened on a shelf above the kitchen stove, its pages gummed together by the steam from hundreds of pans of boiling potatoes. “How can you not see how awful they are?” Sheila hissed to Neil the next day when she took him on a walk to get away from the house. They set out along the flank of the wide shallow valley, into a freezing wind that rippled the slate-colored water standing on the clay in the valley bottom, where the Ditch had overflowed. “They’re so dried up, so false. Nothing they say is ever real.” He shrugged. “We all have to deal with things we don’t like about our parents. At least yours don’t make remarks about West Indians being too lazy to work and wanting to sit all day with a string tied round their big toe, fishing in the creek.” “I wish they would,” Sheila said gloomily. “Does your dad really believe that?” “Didn’t he treat you to his Al Jolson impression?” “But don’t you see how sickening the opposite thing is, too? Always having to be up on the moral high ground. We actually have a family abbreviation for it, you know: the M.H.G. Mum shouts it when the kids are quarrelling: ‘M.H.G! Back down and take the M.H.G!’ Sometimes the whole family goes berserk—I can’t tell you. My brother Andrew—the one who left home—once stabbed Stephen with a fork. He was shouting at him, ‘Cunt, cunt, cunt!’ Dad was trying to separate them, Mum was threatening to call the police. Then that evening when it had all died down we were just sitting around the table again, eating boiled liver or something, pretending that nothing had happened. ‘Almighty God, who hast given us grace at this time.’ ” Neil laughed. “You closed your eyes when he prayed at the table last night,” she said accusingly. “Did I? No, I didn’t.” Sheila was walking backward ahead of him along the path, in her eagerness to convey to him the truth about her parents. The wind on her back whipped her hair across her face from under her knitted hat. Mrs. Culvert had insisted that Neil, who didn’t own a hat, borrow some awful thing from the tallboy in the hall which no one could remember ever wearing, a kind of bonnet with a furry lining and earflaps; it changed him piquantly, into a beady-eyed, perky cartoon animal. He seemed more interested in the landscape than in Sheila’s family. He asked her the names of places they could see, which she didn’t always know; he couldn’t believe that she had lived here all her life and wasn’t sure where north was. They reached a stand of beech trees growing on a slope about a mile from the village. Among the trees, the wind that had blown so insistently against them dropped, and they stopped to recover their equilibrium on a muffling carpet of dried leaves. The smooth trunks of the trees surging up out of the earth seemed present and intelligent, like gray beasts standing soberly to watch them. A musky mushroomy perfume rose in the stillness from the mulch underfoot. Neil put his arms around Sheila and kissed her; the embrace felt comical and unsexual through their bulky layers of jumpers, coats, and scarves. “I could put my coat on the ground,” Neil said insinuatingly into her neck, his earflaps scratching her chin. “It would be nice to cuddle up.” “You’re joking,” Sheila said in horror. “In broad daylight?” Needless to say, at the rectory they were sleeping separately: Sheila was in her old room with her sister Hilary; Neil was in with Anthony and Stephen. “I feel awful,” Mrs. Culvert had mumbled, not looking at Neil, bobbing her thick shock of gray hair and apologizing for there being no spare room that he could have to himself. “What you must think. . . . Of course we should—five bedrooms. Don’t know if Sheila’s told you about Gillian’s problems?” (Gillian, who was eight, was epileptic, and had difficulty coping with school. She was seeing a psychiatrist in Cambridge; apparently she needed her own room. “Which makes me think she’s smarter than she looks,” Sheila had said.) “We’re out in the countryside,” Neil said to Sheila, nuzzling her. “There’s no one to see.” “That just shows how much you know about the countryside.” She pushed him away from her with both gloved hands. “Everyone will know that we’re up here already. If we don’t walk on soon, they’ll be looking at their watches.” “Who cares?” he said, trying again. “I do,” she said passionately. “Don’t spoil this place for me. It’s somewhere I used to come to be by myself when I was a girl, when I couldn’t bear any of them at home. It’s holy to me. I used to read poetry here.” Neil couldn’t argue with that, and so they moved on, faintly mutually resentful long after they’d resumed holding hands and talking. In fact, Sheila had somewhat misrepresented the significance of the beech grove. She had used to go there with Hilary; she would never have gone walking anywhere around here on her own. It was true, though, that she and her sister had sometimes brought their books to the grove with them, and had worked themselves up over what they were reading into states of exalted excitement. When they had all eaten their cauliflower cheese that evening, Mrs. Culvert suggested unexpectedly that they play games. “We always do at Christmas,” she explained to Neil. “Family tradition . . . no television. With you here we’ve got new blood, so to speak.” Neil was fairly appalled at the idea, and no one else seemed keen, but somehow when the washing up was done they nonetheless assembled to play in the front room, the girls snuggled around the meek warmth of the storage heater, with their jumpers pulled down over their hands, the boys erupting into spasms of kicking on the broken-backed sofa. Mrs. Culvert carried armfuls of props downstairs for charades and dumped them triumphantly in a heap: a fur coat, a parasol, straw boaters, an inflatable rubber ring for the beach, an air-raid warden’s helmet, dog leashes, an evening dress of crinkled green Fortuny silk, a croquet mallet. The Reverend, in magnanimous concession, poured glasses of fizzy cider for everyone but the three youngest children. Poor Neil was out of his depth. He had never played charades before, and he was hopeless at it. His team acted “Eucharist,” and for “ewe” they dressed him up as a shepherd in a stripy flannelette sheet with a crook left over from someone’s Nativity play. Nola and Patricia frisked around his feet, baaing, while Hilary, who was usually earnest and silent, followed on all fours, wrapped in a sheepskin rug from the study. Neil made no effort to get into the role of the shepherd; he batted uncomfortably at the girls with his crook and almost ruined everything by mumbling pointedly, “And here’s the ewe,” when Hilary appeared. The Culverts threw themselves into these games, once they got started, with an extravagance that was almost a mania. For “wrist,” Reverend Culvert put on the green silk dress and minced up and down with his wife’s handbag, drooping his wrist and exclaiming, “Dear me, ducky.” Neil looked frankly astonished. He wasn’t much better at guessing, either. Hilary and her father got Sheila’s team’s word—“seductress”—long before Neil did; they held back to give him a chance, and he stared miserably, bemusedly, at Mrs. Culvert’s egg-laying (“Poultry?” he ventured), and at Stephen as a hairdresser perming Anthony’s blond nylon wig. Sheila, acting the whole word in the finale, in her father’s silk dressing gown and a pair of old high heels, was languidly seductive as Neil had never seen her: husky-voiced, rolling her hips, adjusting her stocking, letting the dressing gown fall open when she sat down, smoothing her perfectly shaped long legs. She patted a place beside her on the sofa for her mother, dressed as a shy boy, in tails with a top hat and cane, a mustache drawn with a black mascara brush on her upper lip; she pulled the boy over by his tie to kiss her. Neil was dismayed to feel strong stirrings of desire as he watched. “Never mind!” Mrs. Culvert said to him consolingly when the game was over and they all sat flushed and panting among the disregarded heaps of costumes and props, bubbling weakly with smiles and shamed giggles at what they had done. Mrs. Culvert still had her mustache. “Awfully silly, really,” she said. “You’ll get the hang of it next time.” The next morning, Sheila and Hilary walked up the shortcut through the garden on their way back from buying hair dye at the shop in the village; Sheila was determined to do something with Hilary’s mousy hair. The shortcut meant that they had to plow through dead weeds and brambles at the long garden’s bottom end. A wet mist, like sticky grubby wool, was still clinging to the earth at ten o’clock, and their trousers were almost immediately soaked to the knees, the water seeping through their desert boots to their socks. They tugged at the naked branches of a silver birch overhead to drench each other thoroughly, squealing in the shower of drops. For the first time, Sheila experienced a rush of strong feeling for her home and her past, a tenderness for the winter garden’s desolation. The same gray, sodden dishcloths had been left hanging for months on the washing line. A plastic bucket was half filled with rotting apples from the trees. Children’s trikes and an old pedal car had been left out to rot, too. Everything in the flower beds had overgrown and died, and now the silky seed heads and swollen blackened pods, slashed down by wind and rain, lay dissolving into the earth. The daylight was so grudging that the lamp was turned on in the vicar’s study. The sisters had often watched their father from out here, as he rehearsed his sermons or conducted symphonies on the gramophone, thinking nobody could see him. Neil had found some LPs that Andrew had left behind, and Reverend Culvert, who was visiting elderly parishioners in hospital this morning, had said at breakfast that he could play them in the study if he wanted to. Through the French windows, the girls could see him sitting cross-legged on the floor, smoking, his hair falling forward across his face. He was swaying his head in time to a song they couldn’t hear: rock music, Frank Zappa probably, nothing that the dusty old study with its walls of books had ever been treated to before. (Andrew had had his own hi-fi, which he had taken away with him.) Hilary couldn’t help bursting out with a snort of laughter. “I’m sorry, Shuggs, but he does look funny.” “It’s all right,” Sheila said. “I know he does.” She was taken aback by this stranger of hers, ensconced so outrageously in the innermost sanctum of her family home. The shock of it was voluptuous; she felt with a shudder that the closer Neil came to her, the less familiar he was. She would have liked to see her life as he saw it, stripped of its ordinariness; she wished that she could possess him as he only was when he was alone. She heard a soft thud and a rattle of glass; Neil heard it, too, from inside the room and turned his head. Hilary had picked out one of the tiny half-rotten apples from the bucket and pitched it at the study windows, dropping to hide herself behind a stretch of overgrown wall where there had once been a greenhouse. When Neil looked away again, she stood up to pitch another one; Sheila joined in. Neil got to his feet. It must have been difficult, with the light on, for him to see them in the murky day outside. He came over and peered through the French windows and they threw apples at him, not bothering in the end to hide, standing out in the gray daylight as he watched them, hurling all the apples at him, one after another, until they reached a layer of impossibly mushy ones at the very bottom of the bucket. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Russian Riviera	“Some businessmen” was how Skinny Zyama had described the two gangsters from New Jersey. “You want me there for a meeting with businessmen?” Kostya had asked. “You have other plans on a Wednesday afternoon?” “No.” “Wear a jacket,” Zyama had said. Now, stationed as instructed beside Skinny Zyama’s mahogany desk, Kostya appraised the gangsters. Zyama had placed two leather armchairs in front of his desk, but only the smaller of the two had consented to sit. The larger one, the one doing all the talking, had turned his chair sideways and perched himself on its arm. Instinctively, Kostya gauged each man’s weight. They were both wearing suits, but that made no difference. Kostya had been conditioned by years at the gym, and his mind conjured up a man’s weight and class just as, seeing an apple, it conjured up taste and smell. He’d barely considered the gangsters before his mind had announced: Sixty-four kilos and eighty-five kilos; welterweight and cruiserweight. This was one of his few demonstrable skills—which, like the others, had brought him little profit. The larger gangster looked powerful through the back and shoulders, but he carried himself arrogantly, gestured excessively with his hands, and punctuated his demands by thrusting out his chin. In contrast, the smaller one hardly moved at all. He kept his hands folded in his lap and followed the conversation with his eyes. His neck and his ankles were thin, and he was pale in the manner of someone who is either very sick or very spartan. Of the two, Kostya supposed that the smaller man posed the greater danger, though, to be precise, the greatest danger was posed by neither of them. The greatest danger was posed by Skinny Zyama, who had assumed an obnoxious air of invulnerability. “These are competitive times. You could benefit from our help,” the larger gangster said. “The place is busy four nights a week,” Zyama said. “Impossible to get a table Friday or Saturday without a reservation. We have the best Vegas-style floor show in the city. Professional dancers trained in Russia. Where’s my competition?” “There are other restaurants. They could become more successful.” “The other restaurants are run by imbeciles. Their customers are people who couldn’t get a table here.” “With the right guidance, those restaurants could improve. With connections, they could attract popular entertainers from New York and New Jersey.” “Listen, Alla Pugacheva and Arkady Raikin could perform every Saturday night for a month and those idiots would still find a way to lose money.” “There are other possibilities. Something unfortunate could happen to your restaurant or to you.” Zyama, who had been reclining in his suède admiral’s chair, tilted forward and made a production of looking the gangster in the eye. “You think you’re the first ones to come in here? Understand: I’m in business all these years not because I give money to every hoodlum with his hand out.” Kostya watched the larger gangster unbutton his jacket and slide his hand inside. Cursing Skinny Zyama, Kostya took a step in the gangster’s direction. If the man had a gun, there wasn’t much he could do about it, but he knew that if the gangster motioned toward his pocket he was required to take a step forward. There was an understanding among everyone in the room that this was how it was supposed to be. The script had been written long ago and performed by other men in other rooms and in movies. Seeing this, the gangster grinned. He proceeded to feel around inside his jacket, and then he extended his hand. In place of a gun was a business card. “My gun I keep down here,” he said, raising the cuff of his left trouser leg. Strapped above his ankle was a pistol in a black padded holster. “You see, we are civilized businessmen. Before we reach for that, we reach for this.” He placed the card on Skinny Zyama’s desk. “We manage very respectable artists. We provide security. Many good Russian restaurants in New Jersey and Brooklyn are our customers. There is a phone number on the card. It is our mobile phone. Think about what we said and call. If we don’t hear from you, we’ll come Saturday night to see for ourselves how successful you are.” After the gangsters left, Skinny Zyama picked up the business card and flicked it into his wastebasket. He passed his hand along the surface of his desk and examined his fingertips for dust. “Small-timers. Nobodies. Who do they think they’re dealing with?” Kostya waited for a few moments to see if he would say anything else. Zyama rapped his knuckles on the edge of the desk. He spun the knob of his Rolodex. He reached into a drawer for a pack of cigarettes. “Is that it?” Kostya asked. “That one sits staring like a mummy. The other one with the gun on his leg. Think they can intimidate me in my own place. I shit on them from a tall bridge,” Zyama said. That was Zyama’s final word. He was Zyama Karp, the impresario of the Russian Riviera restaurant. He was a man of influence. Not someone to be pushed around. And, after all, he had Kostya, a Siberian boxing champion. “If they come back on Saturday, you take care of them,” Zyama said. From the Russian Riviera, Kostya drove to the Prima Donna Ballet Academy to return a blouse that Ivetta had forgotten at his apartment. Ivetta frequently forgot things at his apartment, only to discover that the thing she had forgotten was exactly the thing she could not live without. Kostya no longer resisted this; he had learned that it was best simply to return the item—a blouse, a pair of earrings, a lipstick—as soon as possible. He had also learned that once Ivetta resumed possession of these things her need for them diminished. Ivetta was waiting at the entrance to the ballet school. She took a moment to confirm that he had brought the blouse, then lifted herself into the van. “I have five minutes,” she said. “We should drive around the block.” As Kostya eased the van onto the street, Ivetta looked up at her mother’s office, on the second floor of the Ballet Academy. “I think I see her standing there,” Ivetta said. Kostya interpreted this as a signal to drive faster, but when he accelerated Ivetta told him to slow down. If her mother was watching, Ivetta didn’t want to give her the satisfaction of seeing her behave furtively. Kostya didn’t completely understand the rules that governed Ivetta’s attitude toward her mother, but he knew that Luda Sorkin disapproved of him. Luda had been a prima ballerina. She was a cultured person. She was also a successful businesswoman. She had schooled her daughter in the fine arts, she had given her a university education, and she was grooming her to take over the business. That such a woman would want more for her daughter than someone who was a failed boxer, a doorman, and an illegal immigrant seemed to him perfectly reasonable. In fact, he could understand Luda’s logic better than Ivetta’s. Why Ivetta should not want to be with him made much more sense than why she should. When Kostya told her as much recently, she had led him from the bed to their reflection in his mirrored closet door. “We are beautiful together,” she said. Kostya supposed they looked good. He still went to the gym five days a week and was conscious of his physique. And Ivetta had the long, slender muscles of a trained dancer. At the restaurant and on the street, Kostya was aware that men looked at her. She was attractive in the usual ways, but Kostya’s eyes were always drawn to the intricate places where different parts of her joined: her shoulders, her collarbone, the backs of her knees, her ankles, her hands. “You could be beautiful together with someone else,” Kostya told her. “Then you don’t see what I see,” Ivetta said glumly, and she moved away from him and hunched on the edge of the bed. That he didn’t see what Ivetta saw had been precisely the origin of the conversation, and so her answer did nothing to clarify things. Kostya considered pointing this out but knew that it would only irritate her further. “You are honest and good,” Ivetta had finally declared from her desolation at the edge of the bed. And now, because he was honest and good, Ivetta wanted to protect him from Luda’s sneering condescension. For this reason, she had asked that he find someone else to work his shift on Saturday night, when her mother was going to make a rare appearance at the Russian Riviera. “But I am a doorman,” Kostya said. “What do I care how she looks at me?” “I care,” Ivetta said. Most of her family would be there Saturday night, and she did not want to introduce him to them under those circumstances. If they were to meet him, it should be done across a table, properly and with respect. Not with her family celebrating her grandfather’s birthday while Kostya was relegated to the door or the bar—an employee. “Did you ask Zyama?” Ivetta said. “I will.” Up until that afternoon, Kostya had been prepared to do just that, but now he couldn’t imagine how it was possible. Zyama had expended considerable energy publicizing the fact that he had a Siberian boxing champion working his door—he would have opposed a change at the door on a night without gangsters. And, even if Zyama could be persuaded, Kostya’s conscience would not allow it. Which meant that, as alternatives went, Kostya had two: he could work or he could quit. And he preferred to risk the possibility of gangsters against the certainty of unemployment. To Ivetta, of course, he could confess none of this. Her reaction would be predictable and extreme. She would go to Zyama or to the police. Both of which would mean the end of his job. Also, she would likely regard the situation as further evidence of their need to run off together and start a new life in another city, far away from her mother. She had urged him to do this before, to leave his demeaning job at the Russian Riviera, to escape somewhere, get married, go to school, start a business, buy a house, have children, live happily. The idea was tempting; Kostya had no attachment to Toronto or to the Russian Riviera, but, at thirty-four, he was no longer a boy. If he quit his job and ran away with Ivetta and she grew tired of him—a man without an education, with few talents, deficient in English—he was afraid that he would find himself back at zero. He would lose even the few things that he had managed to accomplish. At fourteen, in the gymnasium of the No. 4 High School, Kostya and his classmates, stripped to their underpants, had submitted to a series of physical tests administered by the head boxing trainer of the Omsk Spartak Athletics Club. The man had measured the length of their arms; checked with calipers the thickness of the skin below their eyebrows; had them execute the standing broad jump and a complex version of hopscotch. Then, to eliminate criers and bleeders, he had punched each boy in the nose. From a class of twenty boys, he had selected three. Kostya was one of them. This was in 1975, one year before the Montreal Olympics. The trainer, widely known to be the son of an enemy of the people, had invited himself to Kostya’s apartment to meet with his parents. In the communal kitchen, Kostya’s mother served tea and condensed milk. The meeting was very formal, as though important business were being transacted. Kostya’s trainer presented himself using his full name: Emil Osipovich Shtenberg. “How would you like it,” Emil asked, “if in five years your son was representing his country at the first Olympics to be held on Russian soil?” “The boy’s mother wants to know if he will be hurt,” his father said. “I would be a liar if I said he will not be hit, but you have my word he will not be hurt.” The discussion did not go much further. “My wife and I have never been to Moscow,” his father said. “It is a marvellous city,” Emil said. “I am sure you will enjoy it.” But although Kostya spent most of the next five years in the gym, his parents didn’t get to go to Moscow. Since the Americans didn’t go to Moscow, either, Emil said it was just as well. Any boxer who claimed to be an Olympic champion without facing any Americans was a fraud. With this in mind, Emil fixed his sights on the future. For the Los Angeles Olympics, Kostya would be twenty-three, which, in Emil’s estimation, was the ideal age for a middleweight. And so Kostya persisted. Emil secured him a job at a furniture plant, whose director, a boxing supporter, made generous allowances for Kostya’s training schedule. Kostya received the privileges afforded athletes: food coupons, a new tracksuit, occasional trips to cities in western Siberia and northern Kazakhstan. Over time, he also attained a degree of local recognition: girls smiled at him and men slapped him on the back. By the winter of 1984, Kostya was the middleweight champion of Omsk. Then of western Siberia. To take the title, he beat a boy from Novosibirsk, opening a gash over his left eye and flooring him repeatedly with straight rights. After the referee stopped the fight, the boy sat on the canvas and wept. On the train back to Omsk, Emil admonished Kostya for showing too much sympathy. “He can’t go to his right,” Kostya said, “and his mother has cancer of the pancreas.” “Whose mother doesn’t have cancer of the pancreas?” Emil said. “I don’t see what’s to celebrate.” “In life, anytime you win, celebrate.” In this sense, Emil had been right. That fight, it turned out, was the high point of Kostya’s career. Soon afterward, he lost a split decision to a fighter from Chelyabinsk and once again failed to qualify for the national team. The fight had been close, but one of the judges had scored it overwhelmingly in his opponent’s favor. When the announcement was made, the referee had had to restrain Emil from assaulting the judge. According to Emil, politics had been at play. The authorities had not wanted to advance a fighter trained by the son of an enemy of the people. Fifty years earlier, before Emil was even born, Stalin had accused his father of Trotskyism and shipped him to Norilsk. Emil had been paying the price ever since. Now Kostya was being punished as well. The system was vile and corrupt, and it was only a small consolation when the Soviet Union boycotted the Los Angeles Olympics. Under the strictest confidence, Emil told Kostya that he was finished with the Soviet Union. “It so happens,” Emil said, “my father was Jewish.” Laughing, he added, “Hard to believe that this would bring me anything except more trouble.” A year later, Emil boarded a train and was gone. He promised Kostya a postcard from wherever it was that he landed. He promised to bring him over to the West, where his natural gifts would be rewarded. Kostya waited for the postcard, but it never came. Gradually, he deviated from his training regimen. He spent more time with friends from the furniture plant, went to the banya, drank a little, got involved with women. Occasionally, when he felt the urge in his back and shoulders, Kostya returned to the gym, but once there he felt like a guest. People recognized his face, but fewer and fewer remembered his name. In this way, like everyone else, Kostya lived his life. He watched the Seoul Olympics on television and felt only a passing sense of regret. He remained at the furniture plant until it was purchased by a consortium of Germans and Swedes. Afterward, he took the kind of work available to him: physical labor, often outdoors. It was when he was working on a lumber crew, surrounded by men like himself—the anonymous many who were failing to prosper in the new Russia—that he received the letter from Emil. The envelope bore a Toronto address. In the letter, Emil apologized for not having written for six years, but offered to make good on his promise to bring Kostya to the free world. The letter included specific instructions and a check for nine hundred American dollars. Twelve years later than planned, Kostya rode the train from Omsk to Moscow—only now his destination was not the Olympic Village but a travel agency. Partly because the Peruvians did not demand a visa, Kostya bought a plane ticket to Lima. He turned the remainder of his money over to an old woman who claimed to be Emil’s aunt. She provided him with a pillow and a wool blanket and helped him push a coffee table against her living-room wall. Kostya stayed with her for three nights, until his flight departed for Peru. Most of the other passengers on the plane were Russian, and Kostya wondered how many of them had the same intentions he did. It seemed strange that so many Russians would want to go to Peru. To him, almost all of them looked suspicious. He assumed that he looked suspicious as well, and feared that one of the passengers or the stewardesses would denounce him. But when the plane set down for the connection in Gander, Newfoundland, Kostya was invited to exit along with everyone else. To his surprise, everything happened just as Emil had written. He followed the line of passengers down a long hallway and found himself inside the terminal. He chose a chair in the remotest part of the concourse and went through the contents of his shoulder bag. At the very bottom he found his sneakers. Doing his best to casually conceal what he was doing, he peeled the insole off his right shoe and palmed the scrap of paper he had hidden there. Then he repacked his bag and walked the floor of the terminal until he saw what he was looking for. Standing near a newsstand was a woman in a uniform. Kostya did not know what the uniform signified, but it looked official. Willing himself forward, as though for the proverbial leap into cold water, Kostya approached the woman and read from the scrap of paper in his hand. “Ya yem a refugee,” Kostya said. Subverting his every reasonable expectation, the woman responded in heavily accented Russian. “You want refugee status?” “Yes,” Kostya said. “Follow me,” she instructed. Kostya spent two weeks in the refugee shelter in Gander before he was claimed by Father Nikita, a Russian Orthodox priest who operated a halfway house for Russian refugees in Toronto. When he arrived at the house, Emil was there to greet him. That same night, Kostya moved into Emil’s one-bedroom apartment in the north end of the city. The building was occupied mainly by Russians, flanked by other buildings occupied by other Russians. Many of these Russians were also Jews, though Kostya couldn’t particularly tell the difference. On the main street, there were Russian delicatessens, Russian bookshops, Russian video stores, and even signs and posters in Russian tacked onto the bus shelters and telephone poles. At the nearby park and at the playground, Kostya heard as much Russian as English. For Kostya, the non-Russian world existed only in the various gyms where Emil took him for their workouts. But, even there, Kostya was rarely required to communicate in any but the crudest ways. He learned the English vocabulary of boxing: jab, cross, hook, slip, uppercut. Also useful was the word “O.K.” Not long after Kostya settled in, Emil drove him to meet their benefactor. They made the short trip in Emil’s minivan, which he had been using for years to deliver pizza. “Don’t talk unless you have to,” Emil said. “And, no matter what I say, don’t contradict me.” The man they were to meet was Bomka Goldfarb. Before the collapse of the Soviet Union, Bomka had sold real estate in Toronto, but after the collapse he had returned to his native Kiev and made a fortune dealing in manganese. He was one of the richest Russian immigrants in Toronto. Bomka designated the meeting not at his offices but at a new Russian restaurant in which he held a partial interest. The restaurant was minutes away from Emil’s apartment, in a strip mall. It featured, Emil had heard, a massive fountain in the foyer. The fountain, Bomka Goldfarb explained when he greeted them, was a reproduction of one he had seen in Rome. When he invested in the restaurant, it had been on the condition that it include such a fountain. The fountain was a marble sculpture. It reached almost to the ceiling and consisted of four fish supporting the torso of a powerfully built man. The man appeared to be either drinking from or blowing into a large shell. To Kostya’s eyes, the man’s face bore a resemblance to Bomka Goldfarb’s. Bomka directed them to a table near a broad stage that boasted a gleaming white piano. He bade them wait, then returned several moments later accompanied by a thin, pinched-faced man. “This,” Bomka said, “is my partner, Zyama Karp. The restaurant is his vision.” Bomka took a seat at the table, though Zyama remained standing. “Zyama,” Bomka said, “you should be acquainted with these people. Konstantin Petrov, boxing champion, and his trainer, senior Soviet coach Emil Osipovich Shtenberg.” “A boxing champion?” Zyama asked. “Very talented,” Bomka said. “Emil came to me and said, ‘How would you like to invest in a boxer?’ I had been thinking about a racehorse. But Emil said, ‘A boxer is cheaper and more interesting than a horse.’ He’ll be fighting at the Trump Plaza just as soon as we can get his immigration in order.” “Where were you a boxing champion?” Zyama asked. “In Siberia,” Emil said. “In 1984. He would have gone to Los Angeles, if not for the boycott.” “Must have been very disappointing for you,” Zyama said. “You cannot imagine,” Emil said. “I was talking to him,” Zyama said. “It was disappointing for both of us,” Emil said. “What’s wrong with him? Can’t he speak?” “Of course he can speak,” Emil said. “When do you become more interesting than a horse?” Zyama asked. “What horse?” Kostya said. “I like a sense of humor,” Zyama said. The meeting ended with Bomka’s renewed pledge to expedite Kostya’s immigration process. He had top lawyers in his employ. They were extremely well connected. If asked, they could get asylum for Stalin, he said. On the drive home, Emil was in very high spirits. More than once, he volunteered that he was pleased with the results of their meeting. “You made a good impression,” Emil said. “Why did you say I was a champion?” “It’s a word someone like Bomka Goldfarb understands.” “He’ll be disappointed. I’m not the fighter I was six years ago,” Kostya said. “You’re better than you think,” Emil said. “Most American boxers aren’t fit to tie your boots.” “But if you had written me six years ago,” Kostya said. “Six years ago I was delivering pizzas. And when I wasn’t delivering pizzas I was guarding the lobby of a condominium. So what was I supposed to write you? ‘Dear Kostya, I have no money. The boxing establishment treats me like a nuisance. Nobody here cares if I live or die’? What would you have done with this kind of letter?” Kostya thought that he would have liked such a letter. It wouldn’t have changed anything, but, thinking about the letter, he could see it on the tidy kitchen table where his mother would have left it. He could see himself, in the evening, after the factory, sitting with the letter in his hands. He imagined himself in that past. It was good to hear from Emil, to read about his troubles. It was good to think that, in a distant country, he had a friend who remembered him. Ivetta had never met Emil, but she had an opinion of him. She also had an opinion of Bomka Goldfarb and Skinny Zyama. It angered her that such people would deceive Kostya, and it angered her that he would allow himself to be deceived. “Bomka gave assurances and the lawyers gave assurances. Emil trusted them and I trusted Emil,” Kostya said. “Who in their right mind would trust a person like Bomka Goldfarb?” “He paid Emil to bring me over. He sent a check each month for rent and expenses. We thought, Why would he do that if he wasn’t serious?” “Last month, I bought a pair of shoes. Even at the store, I wasn’t sure I wanted them. But they were only sixty dollars. I wore them once. Long enough to become bored with them. Now they’re in the back of my closet.” “It’s true,” Kostya said. “It’s always good if you can afford to buy.” But if you couldn’t afford to buy, things were different. And the nature of the difference could not be explained to someone like Ivetta, who had forgotten what it was like to be deprived. Ivetta would say that there are always choices, but after a certain point—even when looking back—Kostya could not see the choices. Would he have been better off in Siberia if he had declined Emil’s offer? Should he have returned to Moscow with Emil? Could these be considered legitimate choices? To his way of thinking, confronted by the available options, he had always just pursued the least unpromising. The same applied to Bomka Goldfarb. Both he and Emil had been subject to Bomka’s whims. Given the circumstances, what were their alternatives? Bomka had told them to sign papers, and so Kostya had signed papers. Bomka had told them to wait, and so they had waited. Occasionally, Emil made phone calls to ascertain the progress. He made the calls from behind his closed bedroom door, but the apartment was not large and the door was hardly soundproof. First, Emil had called the lawyers. Later, he had called an associate of Bomka Goldfarb’s. Then, when the associate became unreachable, Emil left messages with a secretary. To placate Kostya, Emil posed a rhetorical question: If Bomka has forgotten about us, why are we still getting monthly checks? The delay was understandable. Lawyers were notoriously slow. And who could compete with immigration officials—bureaucrats—when it came to laziness and inefficiency? Emil counselled patience, but he paid a promoter to get Kostya on the undercard of a show in Windsor. This he considered money well spent—many of the fighters on the card would be Americans, and the whole thing would be broadcast on television in Windsor and Detroit. Also, the promoter had given his word that he would pit Kostya against a young fighter, a Golden Gloves champion, handled by smart people, expected to go far. But, most important, the show would allow Bomka to see with his own eyes the value he was getting for his money. The fight was scheduled for the February of a cold winter. To get to Bomka, Emil parked near his mansion and spent the predawn hours wrapped in blankets, sitting in the van. When Bomka left for work, Emil tailed him to his office. He waited an appropriate half hour and then went in, bringing with him a box of chocolates for the secretary. When he recounted the story for Kostya, he stressed that Bomka had been very glad to see him—and particularly glad about the imminent boxing match in Windsor. So glad, in fact, that, to undertake the journey, he planned to hire one limousine for himself, his wife, his kids, and Skinny Zyama and a second limousine solely for Emil and Kostya. “I hope you refused the limousine,” Kostya said. “You don’t want the limousine?” “Someone who hasn’t won a fight in six years shouldn’t arrive in a limousine.” “To be honest,” Emil said, “I don’t entirely disagree, but this isn’t something I could have explained to Bomka Goldfarb. Here’s what I suggest: if it bothers you, ignore it’s a limousine. Pretend it’s the van.” But the limousine, a black stretch Cadillac, was not easy to ignore. As soon as they climbed inside, the driver drew their attention to the bar, the television, the VCR, the selection of Russian videos, and the refrigerator stocked with smoked meats and caviar. Everything compliments of Bomka Goldfarb. “He has a fight today. No food. No alcohol. No distractions,” Emil said. “Too bad,” the driver said. “That’s the way it is,” Emil said. “It’s four hours to Windsor,” the driver said. “A long time to stare out the window at nothing.” “Élite athletes must be focussed,” Emil said. “No doubt,” the driver said. “I was never an élite athlete myself, but I know something about it. My daughter is a dancer and my ex-wife was a prima ballerina. Danced with Baryshnikov.” “Very interesting,” Emil said. “Boxer,” the driver said, “if you get bored staring out the window, say the word, I’ll tell you my life story.” Eventually, Kostya heard his story, though not before he and Emil arrived at the Bavaria Club in Windsor—a low, two-story building with a wooden roof and white stucco walls. From the parking lot, it resembled a restaurant or a modest hotel. Obeying signs and arrows, Emil and Kostya found the Sports Hall; there they discovered a ring encircled by several rows of metal folding chairs and a handful of people—easily identified as other fighters and trainers waiting for the weigh-in. The promoter saw Emil coming and, despite the look on Emil’s face, extended his hand and smiled. Emil leaned into the promoter’s face, ignoring his outstretched hand, and started shouting—mainly in English but partly in Russian. Kostya understood only the Russian, a collection of obscenities bred of the prison camps and the Army. After Emil finished his tirade, he stalked back to Kostya. “We could call Bomka,” Kostya said. “Say the fight is cancelled.” “No use,” Emil said. “We’re fucked.” In a limousine somewhere between Toronto and Windsor, Bomka, his wife, his two sons, and Skinny Zyama were eating and drinking the things that Kostya and Emil had denied themselves. Kostya imagined them dressed for a casino but installed on the metal folding chairs, in a half-empty room decorated with German banners and dingy photographs of the German countryside. “What do you want to do?” Kostya asked. “We came here to fight, we fight,” Emil said. Fourth on the undercard, Kostya fought. His opponent—no Golden Gloves champion—was a grim, heavily muscled black fighter who, in place of satin trunks and boxing boots, wore Army-surplus shorts and basketball shoes. Outside the ring, with a weapon, he would have been the sort of man Kostya would have been happy to avoid, but inside the ring he was plodding and mechanical. Had he cared about the promoter or the spectators, Kostya might have tried to carry the fight into the second round. But there was nobody to impress. Bomka’s wife had taken one step inside the Sports Hall, paused, spoken three words, and then she, Bomka, and the children had disappeared. Only Skinny Zyama remained, and so he was able to watch Kostya joylessly punish the black fighter to the body and then stop him with a left hook to the temple. Afterward, by way of congratulations, Skinny Zyama handed Kostya a Russian Riviera matchbook. “Call if you want a job,” he said. In the summer of 1974, Mikhail Baryshnikov defected in Toronto. In 1978, at the Joint Distribution office in Rome, Luda Sorkin brandished the letter that Baryshnikov had written to her. The letter was not long, but in it Baryshnikov devoted an entire paragraph to Toronto. A little provincial, perhaps, Baryshnikov mused, but a good place to start a ballet school. “At the Riga Ballet, I danced with Baryshnikov,” Luda Sorkin informed the caseworker. Luda Sorkin displayed this same letter when the family met with a diplomat at the Canadian Embassy, on Via Zara; she showed it to her remedial-English instructor at George Brown College, having had it translated shortly after the family arrived in Toronto, and when she applied for a small-business loan from the Jewish Immigrant Aid Services she carried the letter, her diploma, and a Latvian newspaper clipping that included a photograph of herself dancing with Baryshnikov. Seated at the bar of the Russian Riviera, Volodya Sorkin told Kostya, “There wasn’t enough room in the marriage for the three of us.” “You, her, and Baryshnikov?” Kostya asked. “Me, her, and the letter,” Volodya said. Volodya was a regular at the Russian Riviera. On nights when his limousine wasn’t booked, he stopped in to catch Ivetta’s performance in the Vegas-style floor show. Before the show, he nursed a drink and talked to whoever was around—mostly to Kostya, who had little to do but sit at the bar. Fights and confrontations were uncommon. The clientele at the Russian Riviera was predominantly middle-aged, educated, and relatively well off. Also, it was Jewish. In this respect, Kostya discerned a cultural difference between Russians and Jews: on the rare occasion when there was trouble, nobody pulled a knife. Through Volodya, Kostya became acquainted with Ivetta. Until then, Kostya hadn’t had much interaction with the dancers and musicians, who socialized mainly with one another, but he had taken notice of Ivetta. Not because of some striking physical attribute—with the costumes and the makeup, all the dancers looked like variations on the same woman—but because she possessed a quality that Kostya had observed in the best athletes: she gave the impression of effortlessness. It was the illusion that the forces of time and gravity did not apply equally to all people. Her face and neck still flushed with the charge of the performance, Ivetta slid in beside her father at the bar. She kissed Volodya affectionately, and seemed to take no notice of Kostya until Volodya turned inclusively in his direction. “This is my good friend Kostya,” Volodya said. “Very nice to meet you, Kostya,” Ivetta said. “Kostya is a boxer,” Volodya said. “Was a boxer,” Kostya said. “Not anymore?” Ivetta asked. “I wouldn’t say so.” “When were you a boxer?” Ivetta asked. “It depends who you ask,” Kostya said. “I asked you.” “Then I would say six years ago.” “And if I asked someone else?” “Then they might say two weeks ago.” Ivetta fell silent, arched her neck, and studied him. She seemed to be contemplating something, but Kostya couldn’t imagine what. The expression on her face made Kostya wonder if she had misheard what he had said. It was possible, maybe because of the noise in the restaurant, that she had heard not the words he said but instead some strange words that sounded like them. Kostya thought to repeat himself but reconsidered. Instead, he told her that he had seen her dance. “She’s the star,” Volodya said. “She’s very good.” “Nice of you to say,” Ivetta said. “If I could move like you, I would still be boxing.” On subsequent nights, even when Volodya wasn’t there, Ivetta took to joining Kostya at the bar. At first, she did so seemingly without intention. After the show, she would pass by the bar, evidently on her way somewhere else, and discover Kostya—unexpectedly, as if for the first time. Later, the pretense was dropped. Initially, their conversations centered on Kostya’s boxing and his life in Siberia. Ivetta seemed interested in things that Kostya found mundane, if not embarrassing—the details of the furniture plant, his boxing trials with Emil, his empty years after the fall of Communism. In time, Ivetta spoke about her life with her mother and her own ambitions. “I dance here to make my father happy,” Ivetta said. “Unlike some of the other dancers, I don’t have any fantasies.” Ivetta had been nine when her family came to Toronto and sixteen when her parents divorced. In Riga, Volodya had been a civil engineer, but in Toronto he could not find a job in line with his qualifications. Instead, he had worked for years as a taxi-driver to support the family while Ivetta’s mother tried to establish her ballet school. Once the school was established, she discarded him. Volodya was no longer the man she’d married, she said. She had married an intellectual; now she lived with a cabdriver. The divorce had been bitter, and her parents did not stay in contact. Once a week, Ivetta visited her father in his apartment and made him dinner. Then, there were the nights when he saw her dance at the restaurant. Her mother, a purist, despised the Russian Riviera, and the idea that her daughter, classically trained and destined for greater things, would degrade herself by dancing there. Even before Ivetta went home with Kostya, people had started to comment. To each of them, independently, Volodya said, “I hope you know what you’re doing.” Passing them at the bar, Skinny Zyama said, “Don’t get her pregnant. It will kill my show.” The night that Ivetta finally went home with Kostya, they left the restaurant in separate cars. Kostya drove ahead in Emil’s van and Ivetta followed in a new Nissan Maxima. In the parking lot, Kostya felt the impulse to apologize for his car and, in the apartment, he wanted to apologize again. Clearly, she was used to better. He hadn’t changed anything in the apartment since Emil had left for Moscow. He had never belonged in Canada, Emil had told Kostya, and he’d felt, every day, an exile. A man in his fifties should not come to a strange land, not knowing the language, absent connections, and expect to thrive. He had abandoned his homeland because of a pernicious system, but now that the system had been overthrown he would return. The borders were open. Russia was replete with talent. A Russian fighter could now ply his trade all over the world—in Europe, in America, in Australia. In Moscow, Emil could restore his reputation. “Keep everything, including the van,” Emil had said. “The ministry mails the registration renewal in October. They have it organized by birth month. Mail them a check and send me a birthday card.” Kostya slept on the same mattress that Emil had salvaged years before from Goodwill. His furniture consisted of a metal-and-Formica kitchen table, with mismatching pine chairs; a faded gray velour couch; a coffee table with a scored glass top; and a large Zenith television set in a wooden console. But Ivetta didn’t complain. Even as she spent increasingly more time in the apartment, she never once suggested that Kostya replace the table or the bed. They settled into a routine: Thursday, Friday, and Saturday nights, after the Russian Riviera, they drove to the apartment in their separate cars. On the other nights, Ivetta slept at her mother’s house. When Ivetta’s mother confronted her, Ivetta fled to Kostya’s apartment in tears. She threw herself onto his bed and bawled. She stayed like that for a long time, her back shuddering. When Kostya laid his hand on her, Ivetta related the painful details of her argument with Luda. Her mother had said cruel, shameless things. Ivetta increased her sobbing when she told him the worst of them. “At least your father was something before he became nothing,” Luda had said, “but you, you’re starting with nothing.” On Saturday, at eight o’clock, in among the arriving guests, Kostya spotted the face of the larger gangster and then that of his smaller companion. Kostya watched them drift from the door to the fountain. At the bar, the larger one settled in to Kostya’s right and his friend took the next seat over. After nodding to Kostya, the larger gangster asked the bartender for two Cognacs, and, when each snifter had been filled, he made no move to pay. “We’re guests of Zyama Karp’s,” he said. The bartender glanced at Kostya. “It’s fine,” Kostya said. “Where is your boss?” the gangster asked. “Around,” Kostya said. “Tell him we’re here.” Kostya rose from his seat and walked the length of the bar to Skinny Zyama’s office. As he passed the gangsters, he remarked that they were both wearing the same suits as before. The smaller gangster was seated on his barstool with his legs bent, and Kostya could see holes in his socks, exposing white, hairless skin. Kostya found Zyama standing before a full-length mirror, adjusting his suspenders and straightening his bow tie. His shoes were poised beside his desk and his tuxedo jacket was draped over the back of his admiral’s chair. Turning from the mirror, Zyama eyed Kostya. “Fix your tie,” Zyama said. Kostya fingered the knot of his tie and gave it a superficial tug. “The gangsters are here,” he said. “What gangsters?” “The New Jersey gangsters.” “What are they doing?” “Drinking at the bar.” “Sons of bitches.” “What do you want me to do?” “Get rid of them,” Zyama said. “Just don’t make a scene.” On his way back, Kostya paused to transfer a set of brass knuckles from his breast pocket to his left trouser pocket. Typically, he did not carry them. Any problem he could not solve with his bare fists was likely a problem he could not solve. But, in this instance, he had brought the brass knuckles as a limited precaution. He felt their weight against his thigh, and checked to be sure that their outline was not visible through the fabric. At the bar, the larger gangster was smoking a cigarette and surveying the foyer and the dining room. He watched Kostya’s approach. “You told him?” he asked. “You should finish your drinks and leave,” Kostya said. “Is that what he said?” “No. He just said leave.” “He’s making a big mistake.” “Someone is,” Kostya said. “Maybe even you,” the gangster said. He smiled and remained on his stool, flaunting his ease. Whatever would happen would not happen just yet, Kostya sensed. The initial crush of guests were then assembling in the foyer—a collection of witnesses and complications. Kostya left the bar and took up his position by the door, where he oversaw the familiar procession. Moguls in designer suits—their fortunes amassed in the wake of the Soviet collapse—parked their Bentleys, BMWs, and Mercedeses and ascended the steps with their bejewelled wives. Lesser businessmen and professionals—there to celebrate birthdays and significant anniversaries—trooped from Hondas and Toyotas carrying flower arrangements, cake boxes, and bottles of vodka. Amid the disorder of coats, and the near-suffocating fog of rival perfumes and colognes, Kostya spied Ivetta and Ivetta as she would look in twenty years—both Ivettas looked elegant and unhappy. As they neared Kostya, they became more unhappy. With them were an old man and an old woman—Ivetta’s grandparents. Her grandfather was clean-shaven, with a full head of white hair. He wore a brown suit and, for his age, moved precisely and energetically. Her grandmother, unlike most women her age, had hair that was neither dyed nor cut. Instead, it was gathered in a gray bun. She wore a colorful shawl over an Oriental-looking dress and held her husband’s arm. When Luda addressed Kostya, the woman waited patiently. “So you’re him?” Luda said. Before he could answer, Luda turned to Ivetta. “Is this him?” “Yes.” “Where are your manners? Why don’t you introduce us?” Painfully, Ivetta made the introductions. “Mother, Kostya. Kostya, my mother.” “Why so formal?” Luda asked. “We may be in-laws. We should embrace.” That said, neither she nor Kostya inclined to embrace. “Who is he?” Ivetta’s grandfather asked. “Ivetta’s boyfriend,” Luda told him. “We invited him?” the grandfather asked. “He works here.” “Is that so?” “He’s the doorman,” Luda said. “The doorman?” “Yes.” “Does it pay well?” the grandfather asked. “All right,” Kostya said. “Cash?” “Yes.” “By the hour? “A flat sum for the night.” “What about tips?” the grandfather asked. “Not usually.” “You live in a house or an apartment?” “An apartment.” “Where?” “Antibes.” “We used to live there. How many bedrooms?” “One.” “What do you pay in rent?” “Seven hundred dollars,” Kostya said. “Expensive. You should save up, get a house.” As her family proceeded into the dining room, Ivetta lagged momentarily behind. While he had been answering her grandfather’s questions, Kostya had watched her face darken with hostility. He had seen her look this way before only in relation to her mother, but, at some level, he had always expected that she would one day direct this look at him. A person has only so many faces—the face you show an enemy you will one day show a friend. But knowing this still had not prepared him for the severity of Ivetta’s contempt. Keeping a sterile distance from him, she said, “How could you do this to me?” She spoke loudly enough to cause people nearby to turn their heads. In private, Kostya thought that he might have been able to contend with Ivetta’s anger, but in public he felt inhibited by shame. “I only asked for one thing,” Ivetta said. “If it was possible, I would have done it,” Kostya said. “Do you care about me at all?” “Yes,” Kostya said. “No. If you cared about me, you would never have let this happen.” With a cool finality, Ivetta pivoted on her heel and stranded Kostya in the foyer. He watched as she made her way across the floor and into the dining room to join her family. For the first time, he felt a desire to hurt her. He had never done it before, had never hit Ivetta or anyone, man or woman, in anger, but at that instant there was a pressure in his hands and his shoulder blades that wanted release. If he had been asked to describe the pressure, he would have said that it amounted to the phrase, repeated, “Who needs this?” If he had been able to step outside or find a quiet corner, Kostya thought that he could contain the feeling. If he could blind himself to Ivetta’s presence in the dining room, to the people jostling him, to the gangsters at the bar, he could arrive at a solution. Only a few steps and he could be outside, where he could breathe and think. But as he pressed toward the door he saw the larger gangster waving to him, a leer on his square face, and Kostya did not resist. “That’s some girl,” the gangster said. Without answering, Kostya reclaimed his seat at the bar. “A good figure and a temper. The sort that likes it rough. Gets down like a dog, begs to be slapped around.” The guests were all in the dining room now, sitting down to their excess of appetizers. Soon, the band would start up. Lyona Ostricker would assume the stage and sing Russian classics and then coarsen his voice and do an imitation of a famous black jazz singer. Guests would toast the objects of their celebrations. Bow-tied waiters would deliver the first course. The dance floor would fill and the band would play Russian and American disco. “This isn’t going to end well,” Kostya said. “For who?” the gangster asked. “Good question.” “It doesn’t have to be this way,” the gangster said. “It does if you stay,” Kostya said. At the far end of the dining room, near the stage, Kostya saw Skinny Zyama holding court at his usual table. Guests and acquaintances stopped by to pay their respects. The choreographer, a woman twenty years his junior, kept him company. “You don’t expect us to leave without seeing the famous show?” the gangster said. “The show is an hour away,” Kostya said. “We came this far—we’ll wait,” the gangster said. Kostya regarded the smaller gangster. He sat coiled and seething, his eyes feverish. For the duration of the hour, until the show began, he held the same position. But when the lights dimmed, the dance floor cleared, and the prelude for the spectacle began, he started to shift in his chair. And when the dancers—Ivetta included—assumed the stage for the “Fiddler on the Roof” number, the smaller gangster lowered himself from his seat and made for the men’s room. Without a word, the larger gangster followed. The floor show normally lasted half an hour. The intermittent changes the choreographer imposed never altered its length. After “Fiddler on the Roof,” there was a number in which the dancers leaped across the stage dressed like cats; then there was a scene from “Swan Lake”; then a song called “Cabaret,” for which Ivetta was the lead. Kostya had seen this incarnation of the show at least thirty times and had memorized its rhythms to the extent that he could hear the words and visualize the steps before they were executed. And he knew that after the end of “Fiddler on the Roof” there remained more than twenty minutes in the show. Quietly, suppressing the desire to hurry, Kostya crossed the length of the foyer to the men’s room. On the way, he placed his left hand in his pocket and slipped his fingers into the brass knuckles. With his other hand he pushed open the heavy men’s-room door. To the right were eight tall porcelain urinals. To the left was a long expanse of black marble floor and six white marble basins on nickel pedestals. The walls were covered with gilt-framed mirrors, and by the door were two brass tubs—one filled with fresh linen towels and the other with a pile of the same towels, already soiled. Opposite the basins were four ceiling-high toilet stalls—slabs of black marble with nickel-plated doors. The room was spotless and silent. Kostya listened for some indication of the gangsters. Then, using his knee, he tested the stall doors. The first two swung open, but the third held fast. At the disturbance, a voice belonging to the larger gangster said, “Occupied.” Kostya jostled the door again. “Fuck off,” the gangster said. Gauging his distance, Kostya reared back and slammed his heel against the door. The bolt gave way, and the door flung inward to reveal the two gangsters. The smaller one was seated on the toilet, and the larger gangster squatted in front of him. It took Kostya a moment to decipher what they were doing. The smaller gangster had his jacket off and one of his shirtsleeves rolled up. A belt was cinched at his biceps and a syringe protruded from his forearm. From what Kostya could tell, the man did not look conscious. From his position on the floor, the larger gangster gave Kostya a look of animal hatred. “My brother is sick,” he said. An instant later, he sprang up. Kostya moved reflexively, slipped to his left, shifted his weight, and threw an uppercut that caught the gangster’s jaw. He felt the force of the blow through the brass knuckles and into his shoulder. He could not remember when he had hit anyone as hard, and he felt a shiver of pleasure descend through his knees. The gangster tottered to one side, bumped against the stall, and then pitched backward onto the floor. There was blood on his face and shirt collar and a spreading pool, oily black, on the dark surface of the marble. For a time, the only sound in the room was breathing. Kostya heard his own, the rasping of the beaten gangster, and the slow, nasal exhalations of the smaller gangster, slumped against the toilet tank. Kostya tried to settle his pulse and clear his mind. Both men were breathing; they would live. Kostya had contained the mess to the bathroom, and if he acted quickly he could summon Skinny Zyama, remove the gangsters, and clean up without disturbing the guests. Nobody could accuse him of having failed to do his job, but Kostya derived little contentment from this. The job was something he no longer wanted. The thought of pleasing Skinny Zyama or of sitting at the bar to watch Ivetta dance another night seemed unendurable. It occurred to Kostya that he could leave the gangsters to be discovered by Skinny Zyama or someone else. He could walk away. While the show was still on, he could leave without attracting attention. He could find another apartment and another job no worse than this one. It did not need to be difficult. Kostya took a moment to compose himself. He examined his hands and saw blood. But before he could consult the mirror he heard movement at the men’s-room door. Kostya blocked it with his foot. “Busy cleaning. Use the women’s room,” he said. “The hell I will,” the man replied, and kept pushing. Kostya slipped his fingers back into the brass knuckles before he released the door and Ivetta’s grandfather forced his way in. “There’s been an accident,” Kostya said. “I can see that,” Ivetta’s grandfather said. The old man bent and examined the gangster’s broken face. “It only looks bad,” Kostya said. “I was at the front. I’ve seen bad.” He walked over to the smaller gangster and placed a hand on his chest. “Still beating,” the grandfather said. The old man then stepped into the neighboring stall and urinated. When he’d finished, he moistened a towel in the sink and handed it to Kostya. “There’s blood on your face,” the old man said. “It’s his,” Kostya said. “He needs an ambulance,” the old man said. “If you think so,” Kostya said. The music for the “Cabaret” song flowed into the washroom when the old man opened the door. As the door swung shut, Kostya’s thoughts turned to his own grandfather. He had died when Kostya was still young, but Kostya could recall sitting with him as he related stories of the Great Patriotic War. A German grenade had taken three fingers off his left hand. On the back of the hand he had the date and place of the battle tattooed in green ink. At that time, reminders of the war were everywhere. There were tributes and parades to honor the veterans. Movie theatres showed documentaries and heroic epics. In the streets and back lots, Kostya pretended with his friends that they were the Red Army on the attack. To cries of “Forward, Comrades!,” they rose from culverts and trenches and charged across the steppe, rifles pointed, greatcoats flapping. Kostya hadn’t thought about any of this in years. Distracted, Kostya failed to notice that the smaller gangster had begun to stir until the man half-raised himself from the toilet and blinked somnolently. “Where am I?” he asked. “The Russian Riviera,” Kostya replied. He watched with a measure of sympathetic curiosity as the gangster’s eyes scanned the room, absorbing the details: the broken door, the blood, his brother’s disfigured face. Kostya expected the gangster to collapse again momentarily. He stood with his arms spread in the stall, his elbows locked, his torso canted forward. He looked like a fighter who had got up when he should have stayed down, whose pride and courage would be rewarded only with a harsher beating. He lifted his eyes to Kostya, as if seeing him for the first time. “How did I get here?” the gangster asked. “I don’t know,” Kostya said. “How do I get out of here?” “I don’t know that either.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Two’s Company	And then the perfect couple, Pam and Paul, who first hooked up in college, co-writing operettas and co-founding a cabaret, went on to amaze their classmates by marrying in Reno six months before they even graduated, and finally, at a combined age of forty-three, set up shop in California as a comedy-writing duo. They were still only twenty-seven when NBC picked up their pilot for a series about suburban teen-agers with funny yesteryear hair styles and funny yesteryear teen difficulties. Every Wednesday night, for the next five seasons, tens of millions of smiling Americans watched the heart icon in the show’s closing credit (“a pamela burger ♥ paul mather creation”) twinkle once to the sound of a little chime. In joint appearances at their alma mater’s Career Day—Pam resembling a freckly Bartlett pear, Paul a cartoon scallion with well-gelled rootlets—the two of them dispensed encouragement to aspiring young writers. “Work hard, don’t compromise, never settle for the easy deal,” Pam said. “Failing that,” Paul said, “at least make sure the easy deal is for eight figures.” The happy couple, whose three Emmies had the effect of confirming the literary rightness of their relationship, retired from the show in 1998, sold their bungalow in Santa Monica, and bought a thirty-acre spread up in the mountains, because, as they quipped in joint interviews with their old home-town papers in North Carolina and Massachusetts, Paul had become psychologically incapable of remembering whether the “O” in “Michael Ovitz” was long or short and therefore couldn’t appear in public anymore. At their mountain hideaway, to which, for a pleasant few weeks, magazines sent reporters to profile them and transcribe Paul’s one-liners, they were attempting to write an original romantic comedy. (“We want to push each other creatively,” Pam told Good Housekeeping. “Pam, for example,” Paul said, “has taken to pushing me creatively down the stairs.”) Despite several months of pushing, however, they remained nowhere with the script until, one Monday morning, the FedEx truck arrived with a copy of their latest profile in L.A. Weekly. Pam saw the headline of the article, “two’s company,” and was thunderstruck. “Two’s Company”: perfect title! “The thing we know best is the romance of marriage,” she declared. “The world doesn’t need another gag about a girl with come in her hair. The world doesn’t need another drama about adultery. What would be truly original, at this cultural moment, would be a straight-up celebration of monogamy. To create a couple who are so funny together, so right for each other, that you’re rooting for the marriage from the very first frame.” Paul, who was frowning unhappily at the photograph that accompanied the profile, said that he agreed with her—mostly. His only tiny worry was that a too perfect couple might come across as more cutesy than ha-ha funny. As possibly even outright irritating. He also wondered what to make of the fact that the funniest married movie couple he could think of offhand, Nick and Nora Charles, were hopeless drunks. “Just, you know, wondering,” he said. Pam said she didn’t see why Paul was being so pissy. To prove him wrong, she went to her study, which was a den of deep-pile silk rugs and pillows the size of armchairs, to create some scenes of a marriage that was both perfect and hilarious. Paul’s own office contained a four-drawer file cabinet and a folding chair. He went out to the pool and dutifully opened a notebook for one of the three pilots that he and Pam were contractually obligated to develop. In this one, called “Playing House,” two great-looking high-school seniors get married after their parents, who are friends, are killed together in a helicopter crash, and the newlyweds have to learn how to behave like grownups with big mansions and millions of dollars and how to cope with being C.E.O.s of the family businesses even though they’re still just eighteen and applying to colleges. Paul, for whom first drafts tended to be a torment, had uncharacteristically looked forward to writing the scene in which the two kids lie in bed in their middle-aged pajamas and lament the shrivelment of their sex drive; but now he didn’t see the humor in it. He felt compelled, instead, to go and lock himself in the guesthouse bathroom with a head shot of the twenty-year-old actress, Tracy Gill, whom he was hoping to cast in the pilot’s lead female role, and when he emerged from the guesthouse, nearly an hour later, his mood extremely sour, he went straight to his vintage yellow BMW roadster and gunned its extravagantly polluting engine and steered it toward the city. Paul’s childhood had been the stuff of comedy. His father was ordained as a Presbyterian minister but left the Church to work in human resources at Raytheon and devote his leisure time to sports betting and solitary drinking while Paul’s mother found Jesus, moved to Colorado, and started a second family with an Air Force colonel whom Paul, as an adolescent, dreamed of murdering with a hatchet. At boarding school, he took to wearing all black and smoking black Sobranies, and he helped form a literary comedy troupe that played scenes like the tsar’s near-execution of Dostoyevsky for slapstick. Paul’s favorite role was a cheerful Jehovah’s Witness who kept tapping on Sylvia Plath’s kitchen door while she was trying to kill herself; he also liked to play Sartre’s alter ego, Roquentin, and stare at a tree root until its disgusting raw existence made him barf. When Pam discovered Paul, in their second week of college, he was a gaunt loner who was almost as disdainful of girls as he was of alcohol and sports. On his dinner tray, the night she plunked her own tray down beside it, were three dishes of jello cubes, one dish of vanilla pudding, two glasses of Pepsi, and one flagrant turkey cutlet. Pam’s opening line was “Are you sure you should eat that cutlet?” By Thanksgiving, she was well on her way to having civilized him. She took him home to Durham and introduced him to her plump, jolly parents. Her father had co-written the standard college intro text in macroeconomics, and every time the family needed another million dollars he put out a new edition. (“This is my private mint,” he snickered, showing Paul his home office.) The father gave him tutorials in wine appreciation, the mother taught him to say the family motto in Latin—“Someday we’ll look back on this and it will all seem funny”—and every night, in Pam’s bedroom, which the parents had winkingly forbidden Paul to enter after 10 p.m. (“There’ll be hell to pay, young man, if you so much as lay a finger on our daughter!”), Pam unstoppered the carnal energies that had long been building up in the steel-clad cooker of Paul’s New England psyche. Prior to Paul, Pam herself had been naked only with a French exchange student, whose thick accent and single-minded pursuit of sex later became the basis for the amusing character of Pierre on her and Paul’s hit TV series, but she was such a well-loved child that she was neither surprised nor frightened when the strange, intense Yankee she’d picked out for herself became obsessively devoted to her; she took it as her due. Which was, perhaps, Paul felt, as he drove his roadster down the 101, both the excellent and comforting thing about Pam and the root of his problem now: her lack of doubt. The funniest lines in their work, the lines with that satisfying crackle of sadism, were mostly his, but he was aware that it was Pam’s confidence and Pam’s higher tolerance for cliché that had won them their big contracts. And now, because she wasn’t engineered for doubt, Pam seemed to think it didn’t matter that she’d gained fifteen pounds since moving to the mountains and that she was thumping around the house with the adipose aquiver in her freckled upper arms; she certainly seemed not to care that they hadn’t had sex since before Labor Day; and she’d been pointedly deaf to certain urgent personal-grooming and postural hints that Paul had dropped during their photo shoot for L.A. Weekly. Indeed, the person he now imagined murdering with a hatchet was that paper’s photo editor, who, Paul was certain, had deliberately selected a shot in which Pam looked like Jackie Gleason, in order to punish her for her complacency and to ridicule Paul for his too sincere avowal, in a paragraph not three inches from Pam’s splotchy face, that everything good in his life he owed to her. He felt trapped and isolated by the freakish particulars of a romance that Pam, even now, was endeavoring to celebrate in a film script. He wished that he could call up some other woman, but it seemed to him unlikely that there was a single attractive female in all of Southern California who had not been nauseated by his and Pam’s repeated public declarations of their delight in each other. And so, arriving at the little office of Mathburger Productions, he simply took what he had driven down for—an old, lovingly preserved folder of his high-school scripts, and a Tracy Gill career-compilation video that his assistant had put together and that Paul was hoping might include a few scenes that Gill now regretted having shot. Pam, meanwhile, was laughing out loud while writing her pages. These pages concerned a slightly neurotic but charming couple, Sam and Paula, who arrive in Maui for a week’s vacation. Paula, whom Pam described as “extremely attractive in a thinking man’s way,” has managed to convince herself, despite turning the heads of the resort’s buff male staffers, that she is old and dowdy and losing her appeal, and a deftly handled series of comic misunderstandings quickly persuades her that Sam is flirting with a brainless bombshell, Kimbo, whom, in reality, he couldn’t care less about. “Uh, and why couldn’t he?” Paul said when Pam, after a month of hard work, finally showed him Act I. “Because she’s a big-titted dolt,” Pam answered. “You know, the kind of person you’d expect a guy to be drooling over, which is what makes Paula so paranoid, which is what makes Sam feel like he’s so busted, when in fact—” “In fact what?” “In fact, he’s embarrassed by how uninterested he is in Kimbo. You know, like, what’s wrong with him? All the other guys in Maui are drooling over this girl. And Sam is like, Am I gay? Am I less of a man for being monogamous? Because the idea here is that it’s hard, it’s comically awkward, to still be so in love with his wife after all these years, while there’s this huge cultural pressure for him to be hitting on little chicklets like Kimbo.” After a pause, Paul nodded. “Yeah,” he said. “Yeah, O.K. I get it. That’s interesting. But what if, then, in Act II—” “No,” Pam said in a voice that made Paul wonder if she were quite as oblivious as he’d thought. “I’ve been thinking about this sixteen hours a day,” she said, “and no. That’s the totally obvious beat: she suspects him, her suspicion gives him ideas, he tries to act on these ideas, compromising positions, crisis in marriage, love reaffirmed, lesson learned, happy ending.” “No, I agree, that’s stale,” Paul said. “It’s just, why does Kimbo (unfunny name, by the way) have to be so cartoonish? Why can’t she be like Paula, only younger? Kind of a thinking man’s beautiful twenty-year-old?” “Well,” Pam said, “because that wouldn’t be funny. Apart from that one little problem, its total lack of funniness, it’s a great idea.” Paul retreated to his own study to view the regrettably quite PG-rated Tracy Gill video for the fourth or fifth time and to reread his high-school scripts and imagine them as the basis for a “Monty Python” cum “Fractured Fairy Tales” type of cable comedy hit. It was the surprisingly durable brilliance of these scripts that gave him the courage finally, after painful hesitation, to pick up his phone and call Gill’s agent to arrange a private pre-meeting meeting with the potential star of his and Pam’s potential new hit series. The meeting took place at a Starbucks in Westwood at two on a Tuesday afternoon. Paul’s only serious complaint with the lovely Gill, in person, was that she had brought along her mother. Mrs. Gill reminded Paul of his own mother. Her first question was “What exactly does the phrase ‘pre-meeting meeting’ mean?” Her second question was “Where’s your wife?” Her third question was “Why aren’t we meeting at your office?” Her fourth question was “Why did you not want Tracy’s agent here?” Paul’s answers to these questions were syntactically complex. To change the subject, he went ahead and pitched his idea for a cable show based on his high-school scripts. Tracy Gill averred, with a squeal, that she’d just read “The Bell Jar.” Mrs. Gill asked Paul what he thought was funny about a young mother putting her head inside an oven. The meeting was over in thirty-five minutes. Back up in the mountains, after a high-speed drive that Paul spent picturing a hatchet buried in Mrs. Gill’s forehead, he found his overweight wife by the pool. He was breathless with wrongdoing. His wife asked him to guess who had just telephoned her, but Paul couldn’t. “Tracy Gill’s mother,” Pam said. Paul stopped breathing altogether. “You and Tracy Gill’s mother have been talking on the phone?” By way of reply, Pam gathered her robe around her and stood up. “Paul,” she said, “I want you to move out. Right away.” Her words were so unexpected, and they made Paul feel so guilty and fearful, that even though he was basically sick to death of Pam he tried to defend himself and argue for their marriage: “You’re splitting up with me because I had coffee with Tracy Gill and her mother?” Pam shook her head. “It’s just that, before I go any further with the script,” she said, “I want you at a different address.” Paul said, “Are you out of your mind? You think I’d actually try to steal credit?” “At this point, Paul, I’d consider you capable of almost anything.” “Even, my God, the crime of drinking coffee at two in the afternoon!” “You had your chance to sign on with this project,” Pam said. “I gave you weeks and weeks and weeks.” “This project,” Paul cried, “is a fraudulent, wishful middle-aged woman’s fantasy!” To which Pam simply shook her head and said, “You are such a disappointment to me.” A month later, as part of their separation agreement, Paul signed an affidavit in which he renounced all claims to “Two’s Company.” Pam’s publicist confided to Variety, “He’s a really nice guy, but she’s been carrying him for years. It finally just got to be too much.” After “Two’s Company” grossed a hundred and ten million in theatres, and Pam was photographed looking twenty pounds thinner than Paul had ever seen her, even in college, and she hooked up with a boy so chiselled and pectoral that even if he wasn’t gay he should have been, and she went on to produce more comedies for an older female audience, each more profitable than the last, Paul came to see that what had looked to him like a wishful fantasy had been a fantasy only because he personally had not believed in it: because it offended his taste. Back in Pamland, the wish was still congruent with reality; and every ticket for a film of hers, every video rental and every rave review on AM radio, was like another vote to ratify her reality at the expense of his. The whole country was against him, and so he moved to New York City, where, well-insulated financially, he worked on recasting his comic literary vignettes as little formalist short stories that he mailed out to journals. You could see him at a certain kind of party, standing near open windows, wearing black, smoking cigarettes, and hoping to talk about his favorite subject, which was the badness of his ex-wife’s films. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Where I’m Likely To Find It	Where I’m Likely To Find It The New Yorker, May 2, 2005 P. 88 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a self-styled private detective who signs on to help a woman find her missing husband… "My husband's father was run over by a streetcar three years ago," the woman said. "He did get drunk every once in a while. He was a Buddist priest." She sat at one end of my love seat. "Does this concern your husband's late father?" "No, him." "Is he also a priest?" "No, he works at Merrill Lynch. He is an only son, but he was more interested in stock-trading than Buddhism." "After my father-in-law passed away, my mother-in-law moved into an apartment in our condo, in Shinagwa. She has panic attacks. She calls, and my husband goes down to her. She called us at ten on Sunday morning, ten days ago." “I was getting ready to make pancakes. My husband disappeared. No license, no credit cards, no watch. And he'd just phoned to tell me to get the pancakes ready." "Did he take the stairs to visit your mother-in-law?" "He never used the elevator." This was exactly the kind of case I'd been hoping for. I went through the motions of checking my schedule. "I'm free until later this afternoon." "But we haven't talked about the fee yet." "I don't charge anything. I'm a volunteer. I have another source of income that provides me enough to live on."… She took me to her condo. "One of the reasons my husband bought this condo was that the stairs are wide and well-lit. There's a little lounge on every fifth floor." The first thing I did was walk the stairs from the twenty-sixth floor to the twenty-fourth and back a total of three times…I visited the staircase every day around 11 A.M. I made about two hundred round trips between the twenty-fourth and the twenty-sixth floor. There were other people who used the staircase. I passed a man who ran up the stairs, taking the elevator down. "I was wondering if you know Mr. Kurumizawa?" I described him. "I do know the guy. There are a few who use the stairs regularly." He didn't know any of their names. On Tuesday, I met a man who looked like a retired elementary-school principal. He knew Mr. Kurumizawa. "Did he ever mention any problems at work?" The old man shook his head. The following Friday, I met a little girl. "Is school out?" I asked. "Don't wanna talk about school." She lived on the twenty-seventh floor. "You don't walk all the way up, do you?" "The elevator's stinky." She eyed me suspiciously. “What are you doing here?" "I'm looking for a door." "What kind of door?" "Maybe it isn't even a door."… On Saturday morning, I got a call. "My husband's been found. He was sleeping on a bench in Sendai Station. Twenty days-he doesn't remember a thing. I don' see the need to continue the investigation. Are you sure you won't accept anything for your services?" "Mr. Kurumizawa," I said aloud. "Welcome back to the real world." I imagine my search will continue, a search for something that could be shaped like a door, or an umbrella, or a doughnut. Or an elephant. A search that, I hope, will take me where I'm likely to find it. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Orlov-Sokolovs	At first glance, they didn’t make much of an impression. Both seemed rather small, they weren’t particularly striking, and they were so taken with each other that they had no time for the rest of the world. A second glance, however, told you that they were kingpins, and after that it was impossible to recall the impression they had made at first. Nobody at the university could remember a time when they were not an item. They had met while taking the entrance exam, and even before the results went up, the two of them had hightailed it to his dacha. They returned five days later, on July 21st, the day the enrollment list was posted, and went straight to the dreaded bulletin board, which left all but three students trembling with fear. One of the three was Tonya Kolosova, an uninspired swot and, as they subsequently learned, the dean’s niece. They—Andrey Orlov and Tanya Sokolova—were the other two. Their surnames, derived from the Russian words for eagle and falcon, suited them perfectly. They were soon so inseparable that people started calling them the Orlov-Sokolovs. During those five days at the dacha, where they had crawled out of bed only long enough to slip down to the village store for wine and other basics, they had learned that their differences could be counted on the fingers of one hand. Tanya liked classical music; Andrey liked jazz. He liked Mayakovski’s poetry; she couldn’t stand it. They laughed over their final difference: he had a sweet tooth; her favorite treat was a pickled gherkin. On all other counts, they discovered total coincidence. Both were of mixed descent, Jewish on the mother’s side. Both mothers were doctors. Granted, Tanya’s mother was a single parent and had brought her up in fairly straitened circumstances, while Andrey’s family had no worries along those lines. But even this was compensated for by the fact that, in place of Tanya’s absent father, Andrey had a stepfather, a professor, with whom he didn’t get along. The family’s prosperity was accordingly an affront to his masculine pride. From the age of fifteen, he was out earning pocket money on Gorky Street, illegally dealing ladies’ wristwatches and American jeans, which were just then beginning their triumphal progress from Brest Litovsk to Vladivostok. At this point in Andrey’s confession, Tanya chortled. “The conflict between labor and capital!” Her own business had been in an adjacent market sector. While Andrey was hawking jeans, she had been making button-down shirts, complete with the essential brand labels, having calculated that young people who aspired to wearing jeans would sooner or later face the dilemma of where to buy the shirt to go with them, which had to have not two but four buttonholes on the collar and a loop at the back. How about sports? Oh, yes, they were both into sports. Andrey had been a boxer and Tanya a gymnast, but they had both declined the chance to turn professional. Andrey had achieved first category, become a candidate master of the sport, and joined the Moscow junior team as a flyweight before he quit. Tanya had dropped out slightly earlier, on the verge of making first category. She was satisfied with that. On the fourth day of their life together, they confessed to each other that they had always preferred bigger partners, both of them being somewhat diminutive, especially compared with their fellow-athletes. “Are you saying you don’t fancy me?” Tanya snorted. “Absolutely. I’ve always liked complete amazons.” “Well, you aren’t my type, either. Too skinny.” Tanya laughed. Listening to them, you might have imagined that they had both been through fire and water. In fact, although they did have some experience, it was very circumscribed, barely sketched. They had, however, been around long enough to recognize the rarity of their mutual identification, which was more what you would expect from twins. They would even wake in the night and head for the fridge at the same time. And they clung to each other and fused together like two drops of mercury, or even better than that, because complete union would have killed the small amount of friction that produced those crackling discharges, the blinding flashes of lightning, the moment of near-death when the world stands still in a void of bliss. They didn’t know how lucky they were. They had everything they could wish for—powerful athletic bodies, quick reactions, rigorous brains, and the self-confidence of winners who have never suffered so much as a scratch. They had retired from their sports just as they were approaching their limits, one step ahead of inevitable defeat. Now they were readying themselves for their scientific careers, at the country’s best educational institution and with one of its most demanding faculties. The world, it seemed, was their oyster, and it had agreed in advance to spill its pearls at their feet. The first-year curriculum was overloaded with general subjects; there were an enormous number of lectures and sessions in the laboratory. At the end of the first semester, they passed all the exams with top grades, confirming their élite status, and their grants were increased. By this point, nobody in their year was unaware of them. Some they irritated, some they attracted, but everybody was intrigued. During the winter vacation, Tanya had her first abortion, carried out professionally, expertly, and with much more effective anesthesia than was common at the time. It was the first negative experience they had shared, but they emerged from it without evident damage and became, if anything, even closer. No thoughts about the baby entered their highly organized minds. It had been an absurdity—indeed, a sickness—of which they had needed to be cured as promptly as possible. Andrey’s mother, Alla Semyonovna, a good and unpretentious woman who had played an active part in the medical undertaking, had greater qualms about it than the couple did. She and her second husband had no children, and Alla was more aware than most of the capricious fragility of the feminine equipment. Alla Semyonovna liked Tanya, although she was alarmed by her independent manner, and also by the benign obliviousness she showed toward Alla and her husband, Boris Ivanovich. It seemed to be a matter of complete indifference to Tanya what they thought of her. “They really do have such a lot in common, the two of them,” Alla confided to her husband. “They are a perfect couple, Boris, a perfect couple.” Boris, raising his sexless white face from the newspaper, agreed, slightly shifting his wife’s thought in the process. “Well, yes, two boots make a pair.” He had never brought himself to love Alla’s son, and in truth he had not tried all that hard. The son of a peasant, the eighth child in a poor family, he found all this Jewish doting over children fairly wearying. Tanya’s mother, Galina Yefimovna, knew about the abortion, too, but in her eyes her daughter could do no wrong. She had never tried to instruct Tanya and couldn’t imagine where her strong character and remarkable gifts had come from. From Sokolov, she supposed, though she had never noticed any such virtues in him before he’d abandoned her. Galina was, however, privately regretful for a couple of months. Stealing occasional hangdog glances at her daughter, she could not understand how Tanya, not yet nineteen, could be so unabashed. When Galina hinted that it might be a good idea to formalize her relations with Andrey, Tanya gave a curt shrug and said, “Why would we want to do that?” Their winter vacation was spoiled, of course. Instead of going skiing, as planned, they spent a week at the dacha, opening their embraces to each other very carefully. For them, the procedure had no moral stigma, but it had entailed a number of inconveniences that they would prefer to avoid in the future. Classes recommenced, and they were far from easy. The couple had studied together during the first semester, either at the library or at Andrey’s home, and although both of them had scored top grades, Andrey nevertheless proved to have the better mind. He solved problems more elegantly, more interestingly, with greater mental agility. His superiority rankled Tanya sometimes, particularly when he expressed surprise at her slowness. Tanya would take offense, and then there would be a reconciliation, but she began studying without him, in her communal flat with her mother by her side and with the quiet murmur of music on the radio. They both achieved excellent grades on the spring exams also, and by now their fame had spread beyond the students. The professors also regarded them as rising stars. The only thing that could blight the prospect of a brilliant future was that both had neglected the obligatory “social activism.” Worse, they were not discreetly neglectful but overtly so. Here, too, they were in complete agreement: the Soviet state was beyond redemption and Soviet society was degenerate. It was, however, the society in which they had to live, and the question was to what degree they would have to accommodate themselves to the system. Both had joined the Young Communist League and supposed, for no very good reason, that this was where the line could be drawn. Theirs were the problems of the nineteen-sixties generation, problems that had seeped down to them from people like Andrey’s stepfather. Boris was a former frontline soldier, an honest but prudent man enthusiastic about atomic energy, which in those years seemed to offer power and prosperity rather than catastrophe and disgrace. To such people, a career in science seemed to promise the least likelihood of ideological interference in their lives, a hope that had yet to be disappointed. Solzhenitsyn was already being read over dissident radio stations, samizdat was being passed from hand to hand, and Tanya and Andrey slipped boldly into the double life typical of the masters of miscellaneous sciences. Having done their requisite stint of factory work, they went on vacation for a month and a half to the Baltic states, where they swam in the cold sea, fell asleep on the distilled white sands beneath stately pines, drank the revolting Riga Balsam, and ventured into the dangerous dance palaces of Jurmala. Then it was Vilnius’s turn to receive them, and they found Lithuania even more agreeable than Latvia, perhaps because they met up there with a lively group from Moscow who were five years or so older than they. Playing cards on the beach, they developed friendships that would prove long-lasting. Until their graduation, every New Year and birthday was celebrated with this new circle of acquaintances—a young doctor, a would-be writer, a scientist from the faculty of physics and technology who already was what Andrey hoped someday to be, a young actress who was rapidly becoming (but never quite became) famous, a very bright philosopher who later turned out to be a K.G.B. informer, and a married couple who lodged in everyone’s memory as the ideal pair. In the autumn, Tanya had another abortion. This time, Alla made her disapproval clear but again arranged everything for them, and it was quickly and smoothly done. Tanya was regarded as part of the family by now, and even Boris Ivanovich, who paid attention to nothing other than his beloved Alla and his meals, took a liking to her; she had a good brain. He went to America for a conference and brought back presents for everyone, including a pair of white jeans for Tanya. Amazingly enough, they fit perfectly. Tanya was very pleased and twirled in front of the mirror, prompting Andrey to concede jokingly, “That’s the last straw. Now I’m going to have to marry you!” Tanya stopped wiggling her backside, turned her little head on its long slender neck, and said, a little tartly, “No, you won’t.” By now, in their third year together, Andrey was pulling confidently ahead of Tanya. She followed a short distance behind, and had almost reconciled herself to the fact. Grades no longer mattered as much as they had in previous years. Everybody had been assigned to different departments and laboratories, and the most active students had had their first publications. Those who had chosen a more direct career path were already sitting on Communist Party committees, local committees, and trade-union committees, taking minutes and voting and distributing tickets to the New Year’s party in the Kremlin, or gifts of sturgeon, or places on group tours. These goodies held no allure for Tanya Sokolova and Andrey Orlov. Everything they needed they already had. Indeed, they both had a scientific article to their credit—co-authored, of course, by the director of their laboratory. Despite the independently written articles, they grew even closer when both of them unexpectedly chose to work in a slightly backwater discipline—crystallography—rather than in something trendy, like theoretical or nuclear physics. Crystallography lay at the intersection of chemistry and mathematics. Tanya busied herself with spectrophotometers, while Andrey worked at night in the Computing Center at a computer that filled one entire story of the building. Before the beginning of their fifth year, Tanya underwent what had become her annual autumn abortion and they returned to their studies. Tanya’s mother on this occasion ventured to express her view that Andrey was a complete asshole. Tanya did not take up the subject, only grunting, “I’ll work it out myself, O.K.?” With postgraduate studies looming, the Orlov-Sokolovs needed to obtain recommendations from those very representatives of Soviet public opinion whom they had so studiously disregarded. Tanya’s synthetic-leather skirts, knee boots, and other fashion accessories were also going to have an effect, and not to her advantage. Tolya Poroshko, the Young Communist League organizer for their class and the third signatory required for their references, along with a representative of their trade union and the university administrator, announced for all to hear that he was prepared to sign anything as long as it included the line “Takes no part whatsoever in the social and political life of the faculty.” Poroshko was a rustic lad from western Ukraine, a good-looking, ill-natured idiot, and he could scent blood in a way that any personnel department could only dream of. He took the measure of the Orlov-Sokolovs at first sight; by insisting on his formulation, he could have them automatically excluded from postgraduate study. The Orlov-Sokolovs now revealed their cunning. Andrey, a qualified boxing referee, had been providing his services to the physical-education department, and Tanya had been running a gymnastics club for the past two years at a school affiliated with the university. All this had been for a purpose, of course, and the physical-education department wrote them effusive references testifying to their valued social contributions. Poroshko got egg on his face and a lesson, as he saw it, in the omnipotence of the Jewish-Masonic conspiracy. As far as the crystals were concerned, things could not have been better. Symmetry was just then coming into fashion, and crystals displayed all manner of symmetrical delights. Everyone agreed that the two postgraduate places allotted to the department were clearly theirs by right. In late May, however, after they had defended their degrees, one of the places was taken away. The head of the department, a decent and intelligent man, summoned the Orlov-Sokolovs to his office. He had a high regard for them and he knew how difficult this was going to be. He had already arranged a good temporary placement at one of the institutes of the Academy of Sciences. The probationer would be working on the same topic and, in effect, also under his direction. He had decided to let the couple choose who went where, although his personal preference was for Andrey to get the postgraduate place. They asked for a day to think about it, and walked to the metro in silence. Both knew that the postgraduate place had to go to Andrey, but each left it to the other to speak first. When they reached the station, Andrey gave in. “It’s for you to choose,” he said. “I already have.” Tanya smiled. “Well, fine. I’ll take what’s left.” Each was as strong-willed as the other, neither giving an inch. At the Park of Culture station, she butted him in the ear with her crewcut, and stood up. “I’m going home.” “I thought we were going to—” They had been planning to visit friends that evening. “I’ll see you there a bit later,” she said, and walked off the train on her improbably high heels. The pointed toes of her shoes were, Andrey knew, stuffed with cotton wool, because her shoes were always too big for her. It was difficult to find her unusually small size. Her feet were small, she had a deep scar beneath her knee, a narrow trail of hair down her flat stomach, large nipples that took up half of her small breasts, and arms and legs that were a bit too short. So were her fingers and toes. Her neck was exquisite. She had a wonderful oval face. She took all that with her, and he went home in a bad mood, annoyed and hurt. It really was about time she understood that he . . . but this was the one thing they never talked about. They met up a few hours later at their friends’ apartment. It wasn’t a great evening. Andrey suffered an attack of malicious wit and several times insulted the hostess, which didn’t improve matters. They left late, feeling grumpy. Andrey got a taxi, and they rode to his parents’ place, where Andrey had only a hundred square feet to himself. They lay together in the darkness on a narrow divan that left no room for sulking, and he began talking as soon as he sensed that he was getting his way. “You’re being silly, Tanya. I am the man, for heaven’s sake. Rely on me. Don’t feel bad about it. I love you. We share everything. We have everything in common.” She said nothing, and they shared everything fully. When they had finished, Tanya said in a desolate voice, “I think I’m up the creek again.” He turned on the light and lit a cigarette. She buried her face in her pillow to hide from the light. “Well, it’s time to go for it, I reckon. Have the baby this time. A girl, O.K.?” “Oh, I get it. You go for the postgraduate place and I go for a baby and changing diapers.” If she had been the type to cry, she would have cried then. As he realized. Tanya filled out the forms for the job at the institute, had an abortion, and took off for the south. Andrey stayed behind to take the qualifying exams for the postgraduate fellowship. Before she left, they went to the registry office and filled out an application to have their relationship officially recognized, which Andrey considered essential. They still felt dreadful. Neither had done quite what he or she had meant to, and each still harbored a certain amount of resentment toward the other. Andrey saw her off at the station. She would not be travelling alone. Part of their group of friends was already in Koktebel, and now the rest were going to join them. They were travelling in style, paying an unbelievably high supplement to have two train compartments to themselves. Andrey and Tanya kissed on the platform, and she climbed onto the steps of the train. Stooping down, she waved to him. That was the way he would remember her in this last moment of their life together: wearing a man’s red shirt with the cuffs unbuttoned and a ridiculously long scarf draped around her slender neck. This was her personal sense of style—she would start wearing something unusual, and then others would follow her lead. The train moved off, and he shouted to her, “Don’t go falling in love with Vitya!” It was a standing joke in their group. Vitya, the would-be writer, was starting to have some success and he had girls buzzing around him like bees around a honeypot. “If I do, I’ll tell you straightaway! By telegram!” Tanya shouted, already moving away toward the south. Tanya Sokolova never did come back to Andrey Orlov. She called him some ten days later, in the middle of the night, waking up Boris Ivanovich, who in the morning told Andrey exactly what he thought of him. Tanya told Andrey that she would not be coming back. She was moving to another city now and—well, see you around! Understanding exactly what had happened, and why, Andrey said in a sleepy voice, “Thank you for phoning, Tanya.” She was silent for a time before giving in. “How did the exams go?” “Fine.” She was silent again, because she really had not expected him to take it so coolly. “Well, so long.” “So long.” He hung up first. Andrey’s mother went around to see Tanya’s mother. Galina just raised her eyes to Heaven. She had known nothing about the phone call or about Tanya’s change of plans. She was so genuinely and deeply upset that Alla Semyonovna instinctively consoled her. They agreed that Galina would let Alla know as soon as Tanya resurfaced. A few days later, she called. She informed her mother that everything was splendid, and that she was calling not from the Crimea but from Astrakhan. The line was poor. She promised to write a long letter. Galina tried to shout something about Andrey, but the line went dead. We lost the connection, that’s all, Galina thought, but she feared for Tanya. How quickly she had changed direction. How recklessly she was living. What was she doing in Astrakhan, anyway? Not far from Astrakhan, in a fishing village hidden away among the marshes, lived the family of Vitya the writer. His father had been the deputy director of the marvellous Askaniya-Nova nature preserve. A local workingman who had enjoyed accelerated promotion, he had died a few years earlier, but a number of his relatives remained. Vitya had fished up his first stories and a novella from the nearby Akhtuba River. The village was a poacher’s dream, a realm of fish and caviar, shallow waters, and dense reed beds. The local lads cruised around on motorboats instead of bicycles, and Tanya and her writer, with a sharp tug on the outboard motor’s starter, would take off in the early morning and head for a remote sandbank upstream. She gloried in the hot golden sand and in her new love for this huge man, who was close to six feet three. His entire physique was different from Andrey’s. This was fine, this was excellent, if a bit awkward. He was constantly amazed at how small she was. He would cup her little foot in the palm of his hand, and it seemed quite lost. He was only thirty but already fairly jaded, having gone through a succession of women whom he had, not unreasonably, failed to trust. With this small person, however, he was a giant, and their romance was the more piquant for her having dumped her fiancé for him. The fact that Vitya knew Andrey well, felt protective toward him as a younger colleague, always lost to him at cards, and had got drunk at his house more than once only added to the thrill. Even before the hair had grown back on Tanya’s shaved pubis, she could tell that she was pregnant again. “And this time I’m going to have the baby,” she exulted, with a sense of triumphant vengeance. She lolled on the sand with her writer for the better part of a month before she began to find the smell of fish intolerable, and in these parts potatoes cost far more than sturgeon. Vitya put his hand on her taut, athletic belly and anxiously wondered aloud, “How will everything fit in there? This is going to be a big baby!” He was incredibly curious about the goings on in her belly, already loved what was living there and felt concern for it. He would fall asleep, resting all of Tanya on his shoulder and with his hand sealing her prickly-ticklish muscular entrance and exit. They registered their union at the village office in five minutes flat. The director of this modest institution was the friend of a cousin. No advance application was needed. They took in their passports, paid one ruble twenty, and in return received a marriage certificate rubber-stamped in violet. Having sunbathed, got sunburned, peeled, and gained a suntan, Tanya returned to Moscow in mid-August. Without warning, she took Vitya straight home and announced to Galina, “Mom, this is my husband, Vitya.” Galina was dumbfounded. Heavens above! The girl just did whatever came into her head. He was not particularly good-looking, this husband of hers. He had a plebeian face, thin hair parted down the middle, and a coarse, prominent brow. He was a large man, which makes a big impression on small women, but he was also unexpectedly well spoken and had good manners. Galina went to the kitchen with the kettle and did not return for a long time. When Tanya went to see what had happened, she found her mother on a stool beside the bathroom, weeping bitterly. She was so sorry to have lost Andrey. Real life began in earnest. Tanya started her job, and Andrey came to the institute to see her, not yet knowing that she was married. Tanya and Vitya had said nothing to their mutual friends, and so far the marriage was a secret. “Let’s go and sit somewhere,” Andrey suggested. “Here’s a bench.” Tanya sat down on the nearest one. He told her to stop playing the fool. She told him she was married. “To Vitya?” he guessed astutely. “Yes.” “Well, fine. Let’s go around to his house right now and collect your things so that there’s no misunderstanding.” He made the suggestion so confidently that for a moment Tanya believed she would do it. “I’m pregnant, Andrey.” “That doesn’t matter. You’ll have to have another abortion. One last time.” Andrey shrugged. “No,” Tanya said gently. “I can’t do that anymore.” He took out a cigarette and lit it. “All this because of that shitty fellowship?” he asked viciously. Tanya had already thought this over many times. She knew that she would soon be leaving the institute; her interest in crystals had depended on having Andrey by her side. Now she had no interest at all in finding out why the crystals in the druse of one rock were dextrogyrate while those in another were levogyrate. What she did not yet know was that one of the twin boys she would give birth to would be left-handed. It would be a strange and delightful surprise. If Andrey were to say to her now, “You can have the fellowship, I’ll take the temporary post,” would her interest in crystals revive? Something had gone, unpredictably, wrong. There had been a glitch, a malfunction of some kind in their destiny, but . . . now it had happened. There was nothing to be done. She stood up, placed her finger on the top of his head, and ran it down his forehead to his chin, where she put a full stop. “No, Andrey, no. Amour perdu.” They next met eleven years later, at the seaside in the Crimea, in the place they used to go to when they were young. They were there with what was left of the old crowd: the physicist had emigrated to America, and the ideal married couple was no more, since he had died in a car crash, but she now had another, equally ideal family. Through their mutual friends, Andrey and Tanya had advance warning that they would meet up again on this holiday. Andrey came with his wife and five-year-old daughter. Tanya was with her ten-year-old twins, scrawny bespectacled boys who were already taller than she was. Her husband was staying in Moscow to work on a novel about the life of a fish, having already written about the lives of various other animals. It was his way of fighting the Soviet system, but it fell considerably short of “Animal Farm.” Tanya had changed less than Andrey, who had put on a lot of weight. This was not something a person of his height could afford to do. He was now a doctor of science. Tanya had longer hair than before, and had exchanged her bikinis for one-pieces, her once bewitching belly crisscrossed with coarse Soviet stitching left by her Cesarean section. Otherwise she was just the same: she did gymnastics on the beach, wore extravagant outfits, and stuffed wedges of cotton wool in the toes of her shoes. They had all brought their kids. They walked to coves near and far and taught the children to swim and to play card games. Andrey and Tanya met only when other people were present, at large gatherings, and said nothing meaningful to each other. From time to time, Tanya noticed the anxious gaze of Andrey’s wife, Olga, resting on her, but she found this merely amusing. Olga was tall, and had a good figure, was almost pretty, and belonged firmly in the bimbo category. Andrey would occasionally tell her to shut up, and she would flap eyelashes heavy with mascara and pout. Their daughter was a sweet little thing. A few days before they went home, everybody decided to camp out at Seagull Bay. It was the kind of outing the children loved. Tanya said in advance that she did not want to go, but her sons begged and begged until the ideal family agreed to take them. Tanya was tired of having people around her all the time and wanted a day on her own. She had made no prior arrangement with Andrey, and indeed genuinely did not know that he, too, had decided against joining the excursion. After seeing the children off early in the morning, Tanya spent the day lounging around, reading Thomas Mann in her muggy room, dozing off, waking up, and dozing off again. It was evening before she got out of her chair, took a shower, shaved her armpits, made herself a facial with the cucumbers in the garden, brewed some coffee, and took it out to the garden table. This was the moment that Andrey appeared. “Hello, Tanya. What are you up to?” “Having my morning coffee. Want a cup?” She answered him, aware that this was the moment she had been waiting for all month. “I don’t drink coffee. It makes my ears go all buzzy.” It was a phrase they had used in the old days. “Let’s imbibe some of the local beverages.” They strolled down to the promenade, where Crimean wines were sold directly from the barrel. Tanya was relaxed and euphoric, the unbuttoned cuffs of her man’s white shirt flapping. They drank the white Aligoté, then the local port, then the sticky-sweet red Kokur, constantly putting off a moment that was already behind them. Everybody else was renting rooms in private homes. Only Andrey was living like a general in a small separate cottage on the grounds of a military sanatorium. The medical director had ceded his official accommodation in return for a large sum of money. They walked along the embankment a hairbreadth from each other, talking inconsequentially about the weather. They had done the rounds of the wine barrels and were walking back to the sanatorium, rather than to Tanya’s accommodation. They went in through the service entrance and across the crunching gravel, straight to the little cottage set among rosebushes. The door was unlocked, and they didn’t turn on the light. “Just, please, don’t say a word . . .” Oh, what a lot I’d forgotten: the metal brace behind his front teeth where they were knocked out. . . . No, I hadn’t forgotten; my tongue in here, under the brace . . . My poor dear home, given over to a stranger. Your porch, your steps, your front door . . . your walls, your hearth! What have you done, Tanya? Andrey, what have you done? Instead of those three children, there might have been someone quite different. Perhaps not only one. . . . What have we done? These were not two foolish cells rushing toward each other for a mindless continuation of the species. Every cell, every filament in their being was thirsting to enter the other and be still, be one. Wordlessly, the flesh lamented until morning. Then it came to its senses. They still had a full day before them. They had something to eat and crawled back under the crumpled sheet. Tanya ran her finger from the top of his head to his chin. Andrey saw very clearly how it was going to be: the others would come back from the cove, get their things together, and return to Moscow. He would take his family home, and then he would take Tanya and her boys to the dacha. It would be cold in the winter. His car would get stuck in the snowdrifts. He would clear a path to the gate with a wooden shovel and drive the boys to school. Olga and his daughter . . . well, he had no idea what they would do. Perhaps he would have to take Vera to kindergarten as well. Tanya supposed that Vitya would just shrug it off. He would probably even be pleased and run off to some other woman. It was difficult to imagine Andrey in her house. He must have worn out his red terry-cloth dressing gown by now. He doesn’t drink coffee in the morning, only tea. And, then, the crystals. Of course, there are the crystals to think about. Actually, that might be the biggest worry. What’s to be done about the crystals? Tanya wanted it more than anything in the world, he could tell, and that was why he said nothing. Neither did she, but eventually she gave in. “Well, then?” This could be interpreted in many different ways. What a fantastic figure Olga has, though. Those breasts, that waist, those legs. No, this isn’t going to work. He ran his finger over Tanya’s face. “Amour perdu. Time to get up.” She jumped up lightly, laughed, and shook her head. Short hair had suited her better. “No, you can’t fool me. Not perdu.” “It’s not on, Tanya.” She put on the white shirt, raised herself on her improbably high heels, and left. The next morning, Olga was sweeping the cottage. With the broom, she brushed a triangle of cotton wool out of a corner. “Yuck! What’s this?” Andrey gave it a glance. She really must have been born yesterday. Well, he thought, how could she know what it was for? “I feel I’ve had about enough of this holiday,” he said. “Why don’t we go back a bit early? Maybe tomorrow?” Olga was amenable. “Anything you say, Andryushka.” ♦ (Translated, from the Russian, by Arch Tait.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Mallam Sile	He was popularly known as mai tea, or the tea seller. His shop was situated right in the navel of Zongo Street—a stone’s throw from the chief’s assembly shed and adjacent to the kiosk where Mansa BBC, the town gossip, sold her provisions. Along with fried eggs and white butter bread, Mallam Sile carried all kinds of beverages: regular black tea, Japanese green tea, Milo, Bournvita, cocoa drink, instant coffee. But on Zongo Street all hot beverages were referred to just as tea, and it was common, therefore, to hear people say, “Mallam Sile, may I have a mug of cocoa tea?” or “Sile, may I have a cup of coffee tea?” The tea shop had no windows. It was built of wawa, a cheap wood easily infested by termites. The floor was uncemented, and heaps of dust rose in the air whenever a customer walked in. Sile protected his merchandise from the dust by keeping everything in plastic bags. An enormous wooden “chop box,” the top of which he used as a serving table, covered most of the space in the shop. There was a tall chair behind the chop box for Sile, but he never used it, preferring instead to stand on his feet even when the shop was empty. There were also three benches that were meant to be used only by those who bought tea, though the idle gossips who crowded the shop and never spent any money occupied the seats most of the time. Old Sile had an irrational fear of being electrocuted and so he’d never tapped electricity into his shack, as was usually done on Zongo Street. Instead, he used kerosene lanterns, three of which hung from the low wooden ceiling. Sile kept a small radio in the shop, and whenever he had no customers he listened, in meditative silence, to the English programs on GBC 2, as though he understood what was being said. Mallam Sile was fluent only in his northern Sisaala tongue, though he understood Hausa—the language of the street’s inhabitants—and spoke just enough pidgin to be able to conduct his business. The mornings were usually slow for the tea seller, as a majority of the street folks preferred the traditional breakfast of kókó da mása, or corn porridge with rice cake. But, come evening, the shop was crowded with the street’s young men and women, who gossiped and talked about the “laytes’ neus” in town. Some came to the shop just to meet their loved ones. During the shop’s peak hours—from eight in the evening until around midnight—one could hardly hear oneself talk because of the boisterous chattering that went on. But anytime Mallam Sile opened his mouth to add to a conversation people would say, “Shut up, Sile, what do you know about this?’’ or “Close your beak, Sile, who told you that?” The tea seller learned to swallow his words, and eventually spoke only when he was engaged in a transaction with a customer. But nothing said or even whispered in the shop escaped his sharp ears. Mallam Sile was a loner, without kin on the street or anywhere else in the city. He was born in Nanpugu, a small border town in the north. He left home at age sixteen, and, all by himself, journeyed more than nine hundred miles in a cow truck to find work down south in Kumasi—the capital city of Ghana’s gold-rich Ashanti region. Within a week of his arrival in the city, Sile landed a job as a house servant. Although his monthly wages were meagre, he sent a portion of them home to his ailing parents, who lived like paupers in their drought-stricken village. Even so, Sile’s efforts were not enough to save his parents from the claws of Death, who took them away in their sleep one night. They were found clinging tightly to each other, as if one of them had seen what was coming and had grabbed onto the other so that they could go together. The young Sile received the news of his parents’ death with mixed emotions. He was sad to lose them, of course, but he saw it as a well-deserved rest for them, as they both had been ill and bedridden for many months. Though Sile didn’t travel up north to attend their funeral, he sent money for a decent burial. With his parents deceased, Sile suddenly found himself with more money in his hands. He quit his house-servant job and found another, selling iced kenkey in Kumasi’s central market. Sile kept every pesewa he earned, and two years later he was able to use his savings to open a tea business. It was the first of such establishments on Zongo Street, and would remain the only one for many years to come. Mallam Sile was short—so short, in fact, that many claimed he was a Pygmy. He stood exactly five feet one inch tall. Although he didn’t have the broad, flat nose, poorly developed chin, and round head of the Pygmies, he was stout and hairy all over, as they were. A childhood illness that had caused Sile’s vision to deteriorate had continued to plague him throughout his adult life. Yet he refused to go to the hospital and condemned any form of medication, traditional or Western. “God is the one who brings illness, and he is the only true healer”—this was Sile’s simple, if rather mystical, explanation. Sile’s small face was covered with a thick, long beard. The wrinkles on his dark forehead and the moistness of his soft, squinted eyes gave him the appearance of a sage, one who had lived through and conquered many adversities in his life. His smile, which stretched from one wrinkled cheek to the other, baring his kola-stained teeth, radiated strength, wisdom, and self-confidence. Sile wore the same outfit every day: a white polyester djellabah and its matching wando, a loose pair of slacks that tied with strings at the waist. He had eight of these suits, and wore a different one each day of the week. Also, his head was perpetually shaved, and he was never without his white embroidered Mecca hat—worn by highly devout Muslims as a reflection of their submission to Allah. Like most of the street’s dwellers, Sile owned just one pair of slippers at a time, and replaced them only when they were worn out beyond repair. An unusual birth defect that caused the tea seller to grow an additional toe on each foot had made it impossible for him to find footwear that fit him properly; special slippers were made for him by Anaba the cobbler, who used discarded car tires for the soles of the shoes he made. The rascals of Zongo Street, led by Samadu, the street’s most notorious bully, poked at Sile’s feet and his slippers, which they called kalabilwala, a nonsensical term that no one could understand, let alone translate. At forty-six, Mallam Sile was still a virgin. He routinely made passes at the divorcées and widows who came to his shop, but none showed any interest in him whatsoever. “What would I do with a dwarf?” the women would ask, feeling ashamed of having had passes made at them by Sile. A couple of them seemed receptive to tea seller Sile’s advances, but everyone knew that they were flirting with him only in order to get free tea. Eventually, Sile resigned himself to his lack of success with women. He was convinced that he would die a virgin. Yet late at night, after all the customers, idlers, and rumormongers had left the shop to seek refuge in their shanties and on their bug-ridden grass mattresses, Sile could be heard singing love songs, hoping that a woman somewhere would respond to his passionate cries: A beautiful woman, they say, Is like an elephant’s meat. And only the man with the sharpest knife Can cut through. That’s what they say. Young girl, I have no knife, I am not a hunter of meat, And I am not savage. I am only looking for love. This is what I say. Up north where I am from, Young girls are not what they are here. Up north where I am from, People don’t judge you by your knife. They look at the size of your heart. Young girl, I don’t know what you look like. I don’t know where to look for you. I don’t even know who you are, young girl. All I know is: my heart is aching. Oh, oh, oh! My heart is aching for you. Sile’s voice rang with melancholy when he sang his songs. But still the rascals derided him. “When are you going to give up, Sile?” they would say. “Can’t you see that no woman would marry you?” “I have given up on them long, long ago,” he would reply. “But I am never going to give up on myself!” “You keep fooling yourself,” they told him, laughing. The rascals’ mocking didn’t end there. Knowing that Mallam Sile couldn’t see properly, they often used fake or banned cedi notes to purchase tea from him at night. The tea seller pinned the useless bills to the walls of his shop as if they were good-luck charms. He believed that it was hunger—and not mischief—that had led the rascals to cheat him. And, since he considered it inhuman to refuse a hungry person food, Mallam Sile allowed them to get away with their frauds. To cool off the hot tea for his customers, Sile poured the contents of one mug into another, raising one over the other. The rascals would push Sile in the middle of this process, causing the hot liquid to spill all over his arms. The tea seller was never angered by such pranks. He merely grinned and, without saying a word, wiped off the spilled tea and continued to serve his customers. And when the rascals blew out the lanterns in the shop, so as to steal bread and Milo while he was trying to rekindle the light, Sile accepted that, too. He managed to rid his heart of any ill feelings. He would wave his short arms to anyone who walked past his shop, and shout, by way of greeting, “How are the heavens with you, boy?” Sile called everyone “boy,” including women and older people, and he hardly ever uttered a sentence without referring to the heavens. He prided himself on his hard work, and smiled whenever he looked in the mirror and saw his dwarfish body and ailing eyes, two abnormalities that he had learned to love. A few months before the death of his parents, he had come to the conclusion that if Allah had made him any differently he would not have been Mallam Sile—and Mallam Sile was an individual whom Sile’s heart, mind, and spirit had come to accept and respect. This created within him a peace that made it possible for him not only to tolerate the rascals’ ill treatment but also to forgive them. Though in their eyes Sile was only a buffoon. One sunny afternoon during the dry season, Mallam Sile was seen atop the roof of his shack with hammers, saws, pliers, and all kinds of building tools. He lingered there all day long like a stray monkey, and by dusk he had dismantled all the aluminum roofing sheets that had once sheltered him and his business. He resumed work early the following morning, and by about one-thirty, before azafar, the first of the two afternoon prayers, Sile had no place to call either home or tea shop—he had demolished the shack down to its dusty floor. At three-thirty, after la-asar, the second afternoon worship, Mallam Sile moved his personal belongings and all his tea paraphernalia to a room in the servants’ quarters of the chief’s palace. The room had been arranged for him by the chief’s wazir, or right-hand man, who was sympathetic to the tea seller. During the next two days, Mallam Sile ordered plywood and planks of odum, a wood superior to the wawa used for the old shop. He also ordered a few bags of cement and truckloads of sand and stones, and immediately began building a new shack, much bigger than the first. The street folks were shocked by Sile’s new building—they wondered where he had got the money to embark on such an enterprise. Sile was rumored to be constructing a mini-market store to compete with Alhaji Saifa, the owner of the street’s provision store. (And though the tea seller denied the rumor, it rapidly spread up and down the street, eventually creating bad blood between Sile and Alhaji Saifa.) It took three days for Mallam Sile to complete work on the new shop’s foundation, and an additional three weeks for him to erect the wooden walls and the aluminum roofing sheets. While Sile was busy at work, passersby would call out, “How is the provision store coming?’’ or “Mai tea, how is the mansion coming?” Sile would reply simply, “It is coming well, boy. It will be completed soon, Inshallah.” He would grin his usual wide grin and wave his short hairy arms, and then return to his work. Meanwhile, as the days and weeks passed, the street folks grew impatient and somewhat angry at the closing of Sile’s shop. The nearest tea shack was three hundred metres away, on Zerikyi Road—and not only that but the owner of the shack, Abongo, was generally abhorred. And for good reason. Abongo, also a northerner, was quite unfriendly even to his loyal customers. He maintained a rigid no-credit policy, and made customers pay him even before they were served. No one was an exception to this policy—even if he or she was dying of hunger. And, unlike Sile, Abongo didn’t tolerate idlers or loud conversation in his shop. If a customer persisted in chatting, Abongo reached for the customer’s mug, poured the contents in a plastic basin, and refunded his money. He then chased the customer out of the shop, brandishing his bullwhip and cursing after him, “If your mama and papa never teach you manners, I’ll teach you some! I’ll sew those careless lips of yours together, you bastard son of a bastard woman!” As soon as work on the shop was completed, Sile left for his home town. Soon afterward, yet another rumor surfaced: it was said that the tea seller had travelled up north in search of “black medicine” for his bad eyesight. Sile finally returned one Friday evening, some six weeks after he’d begun work on the shop, flanked by a stern woman who looked to be in her late thirties and was three times larger than the tea seller. The woman, whose name was Abeeba, turned out to be Mallam Sile’s wife. She was tall and massive, with a face as gloomy as that of someone mourning a dead relative. Like her husband, Abeeba said very little to people in or out of the shop. She, too, grinned and waved her huge arms whenever she greeted people, though, unlike the tea seller, she seemed to have something harder lurking behind her cheerful smile. Abeeba carried herself with the grace and confidence of a lioness, and covered her head and part of her face with an Islamic veil, a practice that had been dropped by most of the married women on Zongo Street. The rascals asked Sile, when they ran into him at the market, “From where did you get this elephant? Better not get on her bad side; she’ll sit on you till you sink into the ground.” To this, the tea seller did not say a word. Exactly one week after Sile’s return from his village, he and his wife opened the doors of the new shop to their customers. Among the most talked-about features were the smooth concrete floor and the bright gas lantern that illuminated every corner. In a small wooden box behind the counter, Sile and his wife burned tularen mayu, or witches’ lavender, a strong yet sweet-smelling incense that doubled as a jinx repellent—to drive bad spirits away from the establishment. On the first night, the tea shop was so crowded that some customers couldn’t find a seat, even with the twelve new metal folding chairs that Sile had bought. The patrons sang songs of praise to the variety of food on the new menu, which included meat pies, brown bread, custard, and Tom Brown, an imported grain porridge. Some of the patrons even went so far as to thank Sile and his wife for relieving them of “Abongo’s nastiness.” But wise old Sile, who was as familiar with the street folks’ cynicism as he was with the palms of his hands, merely nodded and grinned his sheepish grin. He knew that, despite their praise, and despite the smiles they flashed his way, some customers were at that very moment thinking of ways to cheat him. While Sile prepared the tea and food, Abeeba served and collected the money. Prior to the shop’s reopening, Abeeba had tried to convince her husband that they, too, should adopt Abongo’s no-credit policy. Sile had quickly frowned upon the idea, claiming that it was inhumane to do such a thing. The tea seller and his wife debated the matter for three days before they came to a compromise. They agreed to extend credit, but only in special cases and also on condition that the debtor swear by the Koran to pay on time; if a debtor didn’t make a payment, he or she would not be given any credit in the future. But, even with the new policy in place, it wasn’t long before some of the customers reverted to their old habits and began skipping payments. Then an encounter between Abeeba and one of the defaulters changed everything. What took place was this: Samadu, the pugnacious sixteen-year-old whose fame had reached every corner of the city, was the tough guy of Zongo Street. He was of medium height, muscular, and a natural-born athlete. For nine months running, no one in the neighborhood had managed to put Samadu’s back to the ground in the haphazard wrestling contests held beside the central market’s latrine. Samadu’s “power” was such that parents paid him to protect their children from other bullies at school. He was also known for having tortured and even killed the livestock of the adults who denounced him. If they didn’t have pets or domestic animals, he harassed their children for several days until he was appeased with cash or goods. Some parents won Samadu’s friendship for their children by bribing him with gifts of money, food, or clothing. Samadu, of course, was deeply in debt to Mallam Sile—he owed him eighty cedis, about four dollars. Early one Tuesday morning, Mallam Sile’s wife showed up at Samadu’s house to collect the money. Abeeba had tried to collect the debt amicably, but after her third futile attempt she had suggested to Sile that they use force to persuade the boy to pay. Sile had responded by telling his wife, “Stay out of that boy’s way—he is dangerous. If he has decided not to pay, let him keep it. He will be the loser in the end.” “But, Mallam, it is an insult what he is doing,” Abeeba argued. “I think people to whom we have been generous should only be generous in return. I am getting fed up with their ways, and the sooner the folks here know that even the toad gets sick of filling his belly with the same dirty pond water every day, the better!” Though Sile wasn’t sure what his wife meant, he let the matter drop. When Abeeba arrived at Samadu’s house, a number of housewives and young women were busily doing their morning chores in and around the compound—some sweeping and stirring up dust, others fetching water from the tap in the compound’s center or lighting up charcoal pots to warm the food left over from the previous night. Abeeba greeted them politely and asked to be shown to the tough guy’s door. The women tried to turn Abeeba away, as they feared that Samadu would humiliate her in some way. But Abeeba insisted that she had important business with him, and so the housewives reluctantly directed her to Samadu’s room, which, like all the young men’s rooms, was situated just outside the main compound. The usual tactic that the street’s teen-age boys used when fighting girls or women was to strip them of the wrapper around their waist, knowing that they would be reluctant to continue fighting half-naked. But Abeeba had heard young boys in the shop discussing Samadu’s bullying ways and had come prepared for anything. She wore a sleeveless shirt and a pair of tight-fitting khaki shorts, and, for the first time ever, she had left her veil at home. “You rogue! If you call yourself a man, come out and pay your debt!” Abeeba shouted, as she pounded on Samadu’s door. “Who do you think you are, ruining my sleep because of some useless eighty cedis?” Samadu screamed from inside. “The money may be useless, but it is certainly worthier than you, and that’s why you haven’t been able to pay, you rubbish heap of a man!” Abeeba’s voice was coarse and full of menace. The veins on her neck stood out, like those of the juju fighters at the annual wrestling contest. Her eyes moved rapidly inside her head, as though she were having a fit of some sort. One of the onlookers, a famished-looking housewife, pleaded with the tea seller’s wife, “Go back to your house, woman. Don’t fight him, he will disgrace you in public.” Another woman in the background added, “What kind of a woman thinks she can fight a man? Be careful, oh!” Abeeba didn’t pay any attention to the women’s admonitions. Just then, a loud bang was heard inside the room. The door swung open, and Samadu stormed out, his face red with anger. “No one gets away with insulting me. No one!” he shouted. There was a line of dried drool on his right cheek, and whitish mucus had gathered in the corners of his eyes. “You ugly elephant-woman. After I am done with you today, you’ll learn a lesson or two about why women don’t grow beards!” “Ha, you teach me a lesson? You?” Abeeba said. “I, too, will educate you about the need to have money in your pocket before you flag the candy man!” With this, she lunged at Samadu. The women placed their palms on their breasts, and their bodies shook with dread. “Where are the men on the street? Come and separate the fight, oh! Men, come out, oh!” they shouted. The children in the compound, though freshly aroused from sleep, hopped about excitedly, as if they were watching a ritual. Half of them called out, “Piri pirin-pi!,” while the other half responded, “Wein son!,” as they chanted and cheered for Samadu. Samadu knew immediately that if he engaged Abeeba in a wrestling match she would use her bulky mass to force him to the ground. His strategy, therefore, was to throw punches and kicks from a safe distance, thereby avoiding close contact. But Abeeba was a lot quicker than he imagined, and she managed to dodge the first five punches he threw. He threw a sixth punch, and missed. He stumbled over his own foot when he tried to connect the seventh, and landed inches from Abeeba. With blinding quickness, she seized him by the sleeping wrapper tied around his neck and began to punch him. The exuberant crowd was hushed by this unexpected turn of events. But Samadu wasn’t heralded as the street’s tough guy for nothing. He threw a sharp jab at Abeeba’s stomach and succeeded in releasing himself from her grip by deftly undoing the knot of his sleeping cloth. He was topless now, clad only in a pair of corduroy knickers. He danced on his feet, swung his arms, and moved his torso from side to side, the way true boxers do. The crowd got excited again and picked up the fight song, “Piri pirin-pi, Wein son! Piri pirin-pi, Wein son!” Some among them shouted “Ali! Ali! Ali!” as Samadu danced and pranced, carefully avoiding Abeeba, who watched his movements with the keenness of a hungry lioness. The women in the crowd went from holding their breasts to slapping their massive thighs. They jumped about nervously, moving their bodies in rhythm to the chants. The boys booed Abeeba, calling her all sorts of names for the beasts of the jungle. “Destroy that elephant!” they shouted. The harder the crowd cheered for Samadu, the fancier his footwork became. He finally threw a punch that landed on Abeeba’s left shoulder, though she seemed completely unfazed and continued to chase him around the small circle created by the spectators. When Samadu next threw his fist, Abeeba anticipated it. She dodged, then grabbed his wrist and twisted his arm with such force that he let out a high-pitched cry: “Wayyo Allah!” The crowd gasped as the tough guy attempted to extricate himself from Abeeba’s grip. He tightened all the muscles in his body and craned his neck. But her strength was just too much for him. The crowd booed, “Wooh, ugly rhinoceros.” Then, in a sudden, swift motion, Abeeba lifted the tough guy off the ground, raised him above her head (the crowd booed louder), and dumped him back down like a sack of rice. She then jumped on top of him and began to whack him violently. The women, now frantic, shouted, “Where are the men in this house?” Men, come out, oh! There is a fight!” A handful of men came running to the scene, followed by many more a few minutes later. Meanwhile, with each punch Abeeba asked, “Where is our money?” “I don’t have it, and wouldn’t pay even if I did!” Samadu responded. The men drew nearer and tried to pull Abeeba off, but her grip on Samadu’s waistband was too firm. The men pleaded with Abeeba to let go. “I will not release him until he pays us back our money!” she shouted. “And if he doesn’t I’ll drag his ass all the way to the Zongo police station.” On hearing this, an elderly man who lived in Samadu’s compound ran inside the house; he returned a few minutes later with eighty cedis, which he placed in the palm of Abeeba’s free hand. With one hand gripping Samadu’s waistband, she used the fingers of the other to flip and count the money. Once she was sure the amount was right, she released the boy, giving him a mean, hard look as she left. The crowd watched silently, mouths agape, as though they had just witnessed something from a cinema reel. Mallam Sile was still engaged in his morning zikhr, or meditation, when Abeeba returned to the shack. He, of course, had no inkling of what had taken place. Later, when Abeeba told him that Samadu had paid the money he owed, the tea seller, though surprised, didn’t think to ask how this had happened. In his naïveté, he concluded that Samadu had finally been entered by the love and fear of God. Abeeba’s news therefore confirmed Mallam Sile’s long-standing belief that every man was capable of goodness, just as he was capable of evil. The tea seller’s belief was further solidified when he ran into Samadu a fortnight later. The tough guy greeted him politely, something he had never done before. When Mallam Sile related this to his wife, she restrained herself from telling him the truth. Abeeba knew that Sile would be quite displeased with her methods. Just a week ago, he had spoken to her about the pointlessness of using fire to put out fire, of how it “worsens rather than extinguishes the original flame.” Abeeba prayed that no one else would tell her husband about her duel with Samadu, although the entire city seemed to know about it by now. Tough guys from other neighborhoods came to the tea shop just to steal a glance at the woman who had conquered the tough guy of Zongo Street. Then one night during the fasting month of Ramadan, some two months after the fight, a voice in Mallam Sile’s head asked, “Why is everyone calling my wife ‘the man checker’? How come people I give credit to suddenly pay me on time? Why am I being treated with such respect, even by the worst and most stubborn rascals on the street?” Sile was lying in bed with his wife when these questions came to him. But, in his usual fashion, he didn’t try to answer them. Instead, he drew in a deep breath and began to pray. He smiled and thanked Allahu-Raheemu, the Merciful One, for curing the street folks of the prejudice they had nursed against him for so long. Mallam Sile also thanked Allah for giving his neighbors the will and the courage to finally accept him just as he was created. He flashed a grin in the darkness and moved closer to his slumbering wife. He buried his small body in her massive, protective frame and soon fell into a deep, dreamless sleep. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Solace	They were children of parents who’d acted grotesquely, some might say violently, toward them, even when they were fairly little, and when, in their early thirties, they met and began sharing confidences, their discovery of this common ground—for that was how she thought of it—seemed to her a great, welcome solace. At last! she thought more than once during the weeks and months after they’d started going to bed together—always at friends’ places, because they were both in transitional periods and didn’t have anywhere comfortably private; she was saving money by sleeping on a foldout sofa in the living room of a one-bedroom apartment in the East Twenties that she shared with her friend Susan, while he, also recently forced to cut expenses, was installed uptown in a rented room in the apartment of an older, intimidating former co-worker, also named Susan. At last! Jennifer said to herself many times before falling asleep after sex in some friend’s or friend of a friend’s freshly changed bed. Then she would squeeze his hand. One morning after this way of life had been going on for a while—it was the day after the summer solstice, and they were occupying their sixth or seventh borrowed apartment, getting away from their Susans for the weekend—Christopher woke early. He pushed back the sheet and the thin bedspread, rolled off the strange mattress, and, leaving her sleeping, went searching for coffee in Bert and Lucie’s kitchen. He moved down the line of melamine cabinets, opening and shutting the white doors. The open, uncurtained kitchen window gave him a view of a treeless back courtyard and neighbors’ windows directly opposite. There was no breeze. Living without air-conditioning or blinds was, Christopher thought, exactly the kind of thing his friends Bert and Lucie would do; it was a statement about iconoclasm or freedom or hedonism, and there was more evidence of it, the ambiguous statement, everywhere in the apartment—in the preponderance of tacky objects from the nineteen-sixties and seventies, in the bright upholstery colors on the couch and podlike chairs, in the large fish tank inhabited by a piranha. Christopher put water on the stove and turned on the burner. There, on the counter beside the refrigerator, was the gin bottle. But where was the coffee? He was naked. They’d met at the end of the previous winter, at a dinner party thrown by a movie producer for whom Christopher had once done some legal work. The producer’s husband had been seated directly across the table from Christopher, and on the husband’s right was Jennifer. Shortly after the halibut came out, Christopher remembered, this man had dropped his napkin on the floor beside her chair, then boldly leaned into her space to reach for it. As he reached down, his forehead bumped the side of her left breast. And that wasn’t all. Coming up after grabbing the napkin, the husband, in a show of spatial awareness or perhaps a feigned considerateness, moved backward to avoid a second contact. Instead of sitting straight in his seat, however, he paused, his body bent awkwardly over, his face close to the breast, which he gazed at, it seemed to Christopher, with intensity. In a mock-formal voice, addressing the breast, the husband growled, “Pardon,” then sat upright and laughed, forcing Jennifer to grimace out at the table as she shared the joke. But what was the joke? “You’re Charlie Harrison’s friend!” she shouted at Christopher before coffee was served, before they pushed back their chairs and wandered off to find privacy—the sloppiness of the people around them making it possible for them to seek refuge with each other—in a bedroom. “Charlie,” he said, and finished chewing. Then he thought: Christ, why bring that up? Down the table, a man who’d drunk too much knocked his glass across a plate, and there was a commotion. “You’ve got to speak up!” she called over the noise. “I can’t hear a word you’re saying!” “How do you know Charlie?” he asked loudly, and she yelled back, “I wouldn’t say I know him!” “I don’t, either! I mean, I don’t not know him! I know him”—gathering steam—“but, well, not well, anymore. I knew him!” What was he doing? Why was he blurting? “I understand! I understand completely!” she shouted at him. “Here’s to old acquaintances!” She leaned over her plate, raised her glass in her hand, and, in a softer voice, told him, “My name’s Jennifer.” Was she making a toast? He had nothing in his glass but water. It occurred to him that she’d maybe had a bad experience with his ex-friend, that she and Charlie had possibly slept together. He tilted himself forward to meet her halfway. A candle burned between them, and he moved it aside. Her eyes were brown and somewhat cloudy; he made a point of looking into them when he said, “It’s bad luck to toast with water.” “We don’t want bad luck.” So he picked up a wineglass from among the scattered dishes, one that had been filled but seemed not to belong to anyone, and raised it to his mouth and took a quick fake drink, even that a violation of the major rule he lived by, the rule he tried not to violate too often or—since most nights he was, after all, likely to break down—too early in the evening. But it wasn’t early in the evening, was it? “For luck,” he said. Later, sitting next to him on a bed, atop partygoers’ mixed-up coats, scarves, and hats, she told him that she’d worked in the film business for six years but hadn’t felt at home, that she’d wanted all along to paint. Her mother painted but had never made a career of it, though who knew what might have happened were it not for her mother’s drinking and drugging. Those were Jennifer’s words: drinking and drugging. She told him she felt sure that as a very young girl she’d probably been happy, but because of things that had happened when she was a bit older in her childhood, things that had influenced every aspect of her existence—did he follow her meaning?—those sweeter memories, whatever they might have been, were no longer playing. Her current project was self-acceptance, not an uncommon goal, she said, among the sorts of people she mainly hung out with, people who’d moved to the city from distant places because, as she put it, “they had no homes in their home towns.” That last line sounded like something she’d said before, on more than one occasion. Nonetheless, her words were a mini-revelation to him. She’d expressed a condition that he’d known in life yet had been unable to articulate until it was figured forth concretely by her, in speech that sounded canned. “I’m enjoying myself,” he told her, and she said, “I’m having a nice time, too. I’m glad I came tonight,” and went on to tell him how much her painting meant to her—so much that it frightened her sometimes—even though she was only a beginner. She was interested in realism, she said. This was one area in which she differed from her mother, who, she confided to Christopher in a low whisper, was an Abstract Expressionist; and—she was getting excited again—the fact of her mother’s frustrated ambition obviously had everything to do with the anxieties that she, Jennifer, felt whenever she picked up a paintbrush. Breathlessly, she told him, “I need to make painting mine.” “How about you?” she asked. “Me?” “Yes,” flirting. “You.” “I’m not an artist.” He paused. She waited. Finally, he said, “I used to scribble a few lines in college. Poetry. Does that count?” “Count? What do you mean, count?” She laughed, and he said, “Oh, I just, I guess, I don’t know,” and then, against his will, he was laughing with her, because what else could he do? He gazed at the side of her face, wondering, absurdly, whether he would like what he saw—what he would see—as the years rolled by and she and he got older. Her nose, it seemed to him, was on the small side in relation to her wide mouth. Makeup did not completely conceal a slight dryness to her skin, and her hair, pulled tightly back, gave her forehead a stretched appearance—would she look less startled without the ponytail? And yet she was attractive in a prim, smart way that he found sexy. And who was he to find fault, he with his thin upper lip and his jutting ears? After they’d stayed a while longer in their hosts’ bedroom, she exclaimed, “I have to go now!” and leaped up and tugged her coat and scarf from the loose pile—he was forced to scramble when other guests’ clothes began shifting beneath him. Would he walk her out? In fact, would he mind saying goodbye to the others for her? Yes, he assured her, he’d be happy to. Where were her gloves, though? she wanted to know. “Did you check in your coat? Are the gloves in a pocket? Are there pockets in the lining? Could the gloves be in the lining?” he asked. But they weren’t there. Nor were they under the bed. “They’ll turn up,” she announced as she marched out of the bedroom. They sneaked past the clamorous guests in the dining room. “Sh-h-h,” he whispered in her ear, and she giggled. He could smell her hair, a sweet smell of—what? At the front door, they did not kiss. This abruptness of hers during the moments leading to leave-taking (was it that parting produced anxiety, or that her mounting claustrophobia required a quick getaway?) was, as Christopher would witness again and again, part of a style characterized by a variety of impatient behaviors—dramatically rolling her eyes, for instance, whenever it seemed to her that he was being pathetic. They would be a wry couple. But a little sarcasm, even in fun—and the evening had turned out to be fun—a little sarcasm went a long way for Christopher, who, when they next met, at a Village café appropriate for a casual non-date (though it was, in fact, a big date for Christopher, in that it was his turn to risk a few remarks about his own origins), told her, “Everybody laughed at me.” A week had passed since the dinner party. “Everybody? Who’s everybody?” She crossed her arms. She was taking his measure. She wore a pink woollen scarf wrapped loosely about her shoulders, in the style of young Parisian women. At the rear of the café, a mother and her two small children were making a racket. Christopher spoke up. “My family. My family laughed at me,” and immediately she broke in, “I understand what you mean. Everybody who matters,” and he replied, “Yeah, right?” before continuing, in tones that she would learn to recognize as harbingers of a mild paranoia, “For example, let’s say I had something serious on my mind, something to say at the dinner table. I’m trying to think of an example. I can’t think of one. It doesn’t matter. I could have been talking about anything. They’d burst out laughing! It got so that I was afraid to speak! If I tried telling a joke or a funny story—and I didn’t often try that, I assure you—they’d sit in their chairs and chew their food. But I could read the obituaries—well, maybe not the obituaries—and my father and mother and sisters would laugh!” This made her laugh—he’d made her laugh. She could just see the awful scene around the family table. Christopher peeking over the top of the obituary page. She hoped her laughter would be taken conspiratorially, as evidence of her recognition of his mistreatment. And his shame. At the back of the café, the mother struggled with her children. Crying had begun. Jennifer turned to look. When she finally turned back to Christopher, he said, “You see? You laughed. It’s so exasperating.” That was when she rolled her eyes. Was she playing with him? He gazed down at his spoon and knife, at his empty cup set crookedly on its saucer, at the miniature milk pitcher and the sugar bowl. What was the use in telling her how bleak he felt when people found him funny? What if he were to reach across the table and touch her face? Right now. Would she understand, through his touch, that making people laugh felt to him like being hit? What made people want to hit him in this way? He said, “It’s not your fault.” “What’s not my fault?” “Nothing. Everything. I don’t know.” How red his hair was beneath the warm coffeehouse lights. He looked to her like a skinny, freckled, Scottish orphan. “You can tell me a joke,” she said. “You’ll hate it.” “I won’t hate it.” “It’s not going to be funny.” “Please?” she said. The joke involved a horse, a carrot, and a man wearing a cap. A third of the way through the setup, he broke character and said, “The guy in the cap is Norwegian. I forgot to mention that.” He started over and, a moment later, paused again before saying—to himself? to her?—“Is it a carrot? It’s got to be a carrot, it’s a horse.” Looking across their small table, he could see her eyes narrowing. He sighed and—he was getting panicky now—said, “The reason the horse won’t give the Norwegian a ride is that he’s depressed. The horse is depressed, not the man.” At that point he lost the thread. What in the world was he doing? He had no tolerance for shaggy-dog comedy. He said, “How’s your coffee?” “Good. It’s good.” He paid the check, and they walked out and stood on the sidewalk, which was busy with people coming and going in parkas and hats. It struck her, as she watched him standing on the dark street with his hands shoved deep into his coat pockets, that he was a decent person, a serious man, and she wanted to sleep with him, but it was too soon for that, and, besides, she did not see how she could invite him to her apartment, where Susan would undoubtedly be planted on the living-room couch—the foldout couch that Jennifer slept on—watching television in a sweatshirt. Jennifer did not yet know that Christopher was similarly thwarted, that, at his place uptown on Broadway, a different Susan, home from her job, was busy smoking cigarettes, watering her overgrown plants, and talking on the telephone in a haughty, supercilious voice. She said, “Which way are you walking?” He said, “Which way are you walking?” “You’re tall,” she commented as they made their way west. She said this because she was forced to hurry to keep up with him on the sidewalk. Christopher did not understand, however, that her compliment was also a plea. He did not slow his pace. They wound up on a bench overlooking the Hudson, making out. Her mouth tasted faintly metallic to him, and he wondered whether this might indicate a problem with their chemistry. Would she be wrong for him? A wind blew in from the river, and they edged closer to each other, taking the cold as permission to mash together on the slatted bench. He worked his hand inside her coat. He didn’t bother with buttons. Instead, he found passage where the coat flapped open between two closures, and felt, as his fingers burrowed under wool, the bottom of a breast. Should he push his way inside her shirt? He could hear people walking and jogging past. She kissed him harder, and, with his other hand, the hand not buried in her coat, he touched her cheek. “Freezing hands! Ow!” She jumped up from the bench and, straightening and arranging herself, said—stating a more or less impossible proposition, he thought, considering that the city’s lights, as well as those dotting New Jersey’s urban hills across the Hudson, burned ceaselessly through the night—“Look how late it’s getting!” Two days later, she phoned to tell him that a friend of hers was leaving town for a weekend trip, and she’d be looking in on her cats. How about dinner at the friend’s apartment? Would that be nice? What should she make? Did he have any food allergies that she needed to know about? “Shellfish? Chocolate? Nuts?” “I’m fine with nuts,” he said, and she told him that she’d started a new painting since meeting him, using bolder colors than she’d ever dared use in the past, and he said that he’d love to see it when it was done, and she nervously said, “I’m afraid that might be a while,” and then they talked about their last couple of days. She’d done her proofreading jobs in the mornings, then painted or gone to painting class in the afternoons, whereas he had hardly strayed from his small room in his Susan’s apartment, the room where he often sat late into the night, drinking—a fact he didn’t let on to Jennifer. Anyway, she told him to write down her friend’s address, and they rang off, and that Friday night he arrived for dinner at a studio apartment with nothing much in it but a pair of Maine coon cats and a queen-size bed stacked with pillows. “Hello hello,” he said when she opened the door. “Careful, careful,” she said, meaning: Don’t let the cats out. He could see them behind her feet, angling for escape, barging about on tremendous paws matted with fur. “This is Siegfried. This is Brunhilda.” With one foot, she forced aside a cat. She said, “Come in, hurry,” then added, “Amy”—her friend whose apartment they were about to treat like a motel room—“is from Maine.” Quickly she closed the door. The cats seemed a third or so larger than any house cat he’d ever seen. “You look great,” he said to Jennifer, and wondered why he’d failed to bring flowers. She did look beautiful. He hadn’t expected the tartan miniskirt. She’d untied her hair and let it fall, and whatever had earlier seemed hard in her appearance was tempered now. He did a turn around the tiny room. Everything—bed comforter, pillow shams and cases, headboard, the petite dresser near the front door, the phone—was white. There was even a white plastic television. The apartment was on a high floor, and an east-facing picture window overlooked the Empire State Building, lit purple and white at its tip. What holiday did purple designate? Easter? But Easter was weeks away. He sat on the edge of the mattress, then bent over with his head between his knees and stared down a big-headed animal that had wedged itself under the box spring. “Here, kitty.” “They like to play,” she said. “Which is Brunhilda?” “That one,” pointing, “the female.” Then she said, “I guess we’ll have to eat on the bed.” It was true. There was nowhere else to sit. He said, “Or on the floor,” though the available floor space was not much more than a parquet walkway surrounding the bed (there was barely room to open the closet) and a kitchen area recessed along one wall. “Or in the bathroom?” he added. She’d chosen halibut in honor of their meeting. Already they were building traditions. While he kept the cats busy with a chewed-up string dragged back and forth across the floor, she cooked the fish in one of Amy’s white enamel pans, on top of Amy’s white mini-stove. They squeezed onto the floor between bed and window, and balanced their plates on their knees. Paper towels were their napkins. He took a bite and said, “This is terrific.” “Is it? Do you mean that? I’m glad. Salad?” “In a minute. Thank you.” A cat crashed into his arm and he put down his fork and shoved it away. “Don’t let them bother you.” “It’s not a problem. I like cats.” In fact, he was allergic. He peered around the room and saw, through watery eyes, a white cosmos. He said, “I feel like I should be drinking milk.” “I think there’s some in the refrigerator,” she said, and he protested, “No, please, I wasn’t serious,” leading her to wonder if he’d been making a reference to the cats—was that it?—while he thought back over their past conversations. Had she shown a pattern of literal-mindedness? He saw her puzzlement, and felt as he always did when he allowed himself even the weakest attempt at humor. And what was with these animals that kept coming and coming, nosing around their laps and swatting at their food, so that he or Jennifer seemed always to be hoisting one and tossing it aside? “No. Siegfried. No,” Christopher scolded. His sinuses were flooding. Jennifer threw Brunhilda onto the bed and told him that she was aware that by training to paint in a manner she thought of as realistic—she was aware that, by trying to render from life, she was covertly attacking her mother and what she called her mother’s alcoholic world view, a world view quite accurately illustrated, she felt, in the sixties-style abstract paintings her mother never finished, or in the ones she finished but ruined by angrily painting past the point of completion. “She destroys her own work,” Jennifer said, and went on to add that she, Jennifer, had recently come to feel that she could, in her own, more representational paintings, not only repudiate her mother but escape her; her attempt to mirror in paint some piece of reality represented her determination to live a dignified life. That was what she believed. Or hoped. She said, “When I study the thing I’m painting, I feel free from not painting.” Instead of asking her, What do you mean? he said, “What do you paint?” “I’m one of those people standing behind an easel in Central Park.” “Really?” “It seems quaint, but it’s not. It’s serious.” “No. I didn’t mean . . . It’s not that I . . . I,” he said, and this time—she was embarrassed for having embarrassed him—she laughed. How could she not? Weren’t couples supposed to laugh together? Sniffling, he said, “What do I know? I’m sorry.” “Don’t apologize,” she said, and whispered, consolingly, “It’s all right. It’s all right.” Then she confided, “I wear a beret.” “No, you don’t.” “Yes, I do.” When they kissed, the metallic taste that he remembered from the bench by the Hudson, and which he’d found himself worrying over up in his room, was gone. Maybe it had been neutralized by the fish. They set their plates on the floor beneath the window. He’d expected her to be nervous with him—at what point might she leap up and end the evening with some excuse or other?—and this made him vigilant and therefore clumsy as he unbuttoned her blouse and felt behind her back for the metal hooks fastening her bra. She helped him with the hooks and her shirt’s bottom buttons, and she raised her arms, allowing him to unwrap her. He grabbed her hand and one of her ankles, twisting her toward him. She clutched his shirt, yanked its tail from his pants, fiercely untucking him. Behind her was the big window, with its skyline view. What would it be like to come home to that? They got up on the bed, on the pillows, and could hear Siegfried and Brunhilda snapping at the food they’d left on their plates. It was obscene, he thought, this noisy feline licking, and yet he feared that getting up and clearing the plates to the sink might be interpreted as an act of antiseptic fastidiousness, explicitly anti-sexual. He pinned her shoulders to the mattress and leaned down to bite her nipple. Though he did not yet know her body, what pressures to apply, where to linger and for how long, he managed, in spite of his worry that she would find him awkward, to hold her in a way that felt—this was something he sensed—soothing to them both. That said, it was true that she, too, passed through moments of dread. It had always been this way with her. Her heart raced, her skin got a prickly feeling, and she was forced to concentrate on breathing deeply. Right before he pulled out and came, he looked down and caught her gazing out the window at the Empire State. He brushed her hair off her forehead, lowered his mouth to her ear, and whispered, “Are you with me, Jennifer? Are you there? Are you there, Jennifer?” This got her attention. His quiet murmuring so turned them on that it immediately became repertoire, their version of “Fuck me. Fuck me.” Afterward, she told Christopher some, but not all, of the truth of her childhood. She was afraid, though without having a clear idea why, that if she confessed too much, if she reported in full her memories of her father coming drunk into her room at night, she’d lose him. He’d sat in his underwear in a chair beside her bed, her father had, or, she said to Christopher, sometimes right on the bed, and he’d told her again and again how he loved her, and how he wished the two of them could pack their things, right this minute, and drive away together to some remote place where she’d never hear vicious fighting from the other side of the door. It would be simple. But she had to choose. Would she come with him? her father had asked her, before leaning in close and putting his arms around her neck and weeping morosely. She would always remember the smell of his breath when he’d been drinking. Christopher listened politely, then, sighing—his turn, once again, to show her that he could face up to his own history—confided in a whisper that he had never been anything but a goddam disappointment to his family, and that, no matter how hard he’d tried, he’d never escaped or really even understood his role as a clown, as a fool, but that he’d finally made up his mind that it didn’t matter, that their opinion of him wasn’t going to bother him forever. She asked him, then, whether they drank, his parents, and he, startled by this interruption, said, “Oh. You know,” to which she replied, “No, I don’t know. You have to tell me.” And so he said, somewhat defensively, “Yes. They did. They did,” then, waving his hands in the dark, went on to announce—it was as if he were making a promise—that he could handle himself in this world. And though he was not, he further acknowledged, currently employed, neither was he concerned. He had savings, in a manner of speaking, from his last and only secure position, as an associate at a law firm where he’d realized early on that he would not have the will or the desire to make partner. What point would there have been in carrying on? he asked her without really asking. He said, closing, “I’m not worried. I can find legal temp work when I need to. Hey, life’s just one big process of elimination, right?” He shoved Siegfried aside, jumped up from the bed, and stood staring out at the bright city. Why was he so jittery all of a sudden? “How about a little air?” he suggested, raising the window an inch, letting in the sounds of sirens and car horns blaring far below. Over the next months, as winter turned to spring, and spring to summer, in apartments in Manhattan and a brownstone in Brooklyn, Jennifer and Christopher developed a pattern of habitation described in rough form by the weekend at Amy’s. After hauling overnight bags and specialty-shop groceries into the new house-sit, they would cook without cleaning, nose through cabinets and drawers, and fall in and out of bed, where, after screwing, they might also eat. It never took long for things to go to hell—crumbs in the sheets, ashtrays and unwashed glasses and a wine bottle or two (she liked a glass before sleep) sitting on the floor, spills drying on kitchen countertops, leftovers hardening in pans. “What a disaster,” Christopher would invariably say when the time came to tidy up, and she’d answer, rolling her eyes, “Yes, but it’s our disaster.” Before they made their escape, she’d scribble a note and leave gift-wrapped soap or a bottle of good olive oil (along with her leftover wine, if there was any) in a place where it would be found the minute the rightful inhabitants came through the door. Some places worked out better than others. Karen and Peter’s Little Italy walkup facing the street was cluttered and dreary, and a tenant in a neighboring apartment had the music turned up loud, but Jennifer, intent on a good time, hauled Karen’s wardrobe from the closet in search of skirts and dresses to model for Christopher. Karen had fabulous clothes, in Jennifer’s size. It wasn’t long before Jennifer began pulling out the shoeboxes as well, along with Karen’s cashmere sweaters and blazers, and parading from the bedroom in head-to-toe outfits, while Christopher commented from his chair on the looks that worked and those that didn’t. That was a fun night. Less enjoyable was the brownstone, where Christopher caused basement flooding when he used paper towels instead of toilet paper in an upstairs bathroom, clogging a section of pipe, three stories below, that had been rusting away for years. The owners of the house, Sam and Beth, were away in California with their twins, Sarah and Miles, at Sam’s grandmother’s memorial service. The better part of Christopher and Jennifer’s weekend was given over to negotiations with plumbers, negotiations undertaken without consulting Sam and Beth. Finally, a man came in and sawed away and replaced the corroded pipe, and they spent Sunday afternoon laundering the towels they’d used to clean the floor and the assortment of Miles’s and Sarah’s toys that had been sitting in a pile beneath the leak. “That’s what happens when you buy instead of rent,” Christopher announced that night as he locked the front door behind them. He said, “Shall we?,” and they hurriedly kissed before darting off to different subways and the lives they lived separately during the week. Then, in May, they shut themselves up inside a modern high-rise on Madison Avenue. For three days, they shared what should have been a paradise of high-ceilinged rooms while the apartment’s owner, Danny, a friend of Christopher’s who’d inherited a department-store fortune, was away in Germany buying art. He was a collector. “Jesus,” Jennifer said when they walked in. “Will you look at this crap?” She made a clicking sound, dismissive, using tongue against teeth. She’d stopped before a large drawing hanging in the entryway. It was, like all the pieces displayed on Danny’s walls, abstract—a charcoal turmoil of overlapping marks, smudges, and erasures executed with such force by the artist that the paper had worn through in places. “Do you hate it?” Christopher asked. He’d wanted her to be proud of him for scoring Danny’s keys. He hadn’t thought to worry about his friend’s taste. She didn’t answer, so he dropped their grocery bags, came up behind her, and wrapped her in a hug. Resting his chin on her shoulder, he looked at the drawing from her point of view. At first it appeared, he thought, inchoate and stagy—as if the artist had been playing with an idea about the drama in disorder. But the longer Christopher stared the more he felt compelled to see otherwise. Was that a reptile skittering across the bottom of the paper? Were those faces? He felt the muscles around his eyes relax as his gaze became less focussed; outlines of faces and figures receded into the drawing’s shadows, and the work acquired space and depth, interiority. Glancing sideways, he saw that she was biting her lower lip. “How about that? It’s a world,” he said. She’d been thinking the same thing, though the world she saw was not his world. She saw the white walls and porch-paint gray floor inside her mother’s studio, in particular the floor, its smudged arabesques and dirty footprints of paint dripped from brushes held slackly in her mother’s hand, year after year, as far back as she could remember. Why hadn’t her mother protected her? She pried Christopher’s arms from her waist, stomped into the living room, and plopped down on one of the leather sofas he’d been looking forward to having sex on while listening to Danny’s stereo. “Go to hell,” she said, and he flinched—was she joking? But it didn’t sound like a joke. The situation wasn’t much improved in the living room. On one wall was a sculpture that looked like a complicated tricornered hat, with a high crown and a razor-edged brim. And that painting above Jennifer’s head couldn’t possibly be a—a what’s-his-name, could it? Outside, trees were in bloom and the park was alive with insects and birds. But Danny preferred that they not open the apartment’s windows. It was important to keep out dust. And, he had asked, could they please not raise the shades during the day, also for reasons having to do with conservation? Perhaps it was the drawn shades that caused Jennifer’s bad mood to worsen. Christopher spent Saturday afternoon alone in the semi-darkness, flipping channels on Danny’s giant television. Occasionally Jennifer called to him from the bedroom. She didn’t feel like getting out of bed, even though she was sharing the room with a Richard Serra print that looked like a leaden, black sun. “I feel sick,” she told him that night when he came in and checked on her. “Do I have a fever?” He felt her forehead. “If you do, it’s not high.” “Ugh,” she said. They had another conversation about art. “Did you paint this week?” “I tried one day. It was windy and the stretcher blew off the easel. Twice. Anyhow, it doesn’t matter. My painting is all over the place. I don’t know what I’m doing.” “That can’t be true.” “I don’t understand color. I don’t understand paint. I want things brighter. Not brighter, more alive. What am I trying to say?” “Intense? More intense?” She coughed. “That’s part of it. I’m also searching for restraint. “Intense restraint.” “Very funny,” coughing again. “I didn’t mean to be funny.” “Believe me, I know.” He felt her forehead once more, and this time decided that she was hot. She had a temperature. He said, “I’d better get you some aspirin and a glass of water.” When he came back into the room, he sat on the bed and waited while she swallowed the pills. “Stop staring at me.” “Sorry.” “You’re making me nervous,” she said. She handed him the glass. “Could you get me a drop of wine? The Merlot on the counter beside the sink?” “Is that a good idea?” “It’s Saturday night. Who cares if it’s a good idea?” She held the glass for him to take. “A drop? Just a drop?” He took the glass and went out of the room. Who drank with a fever? He made a special effort not to drink on these weekends they shared. He did not want her to see him knocking back a six-pack in the hours past midnight, as he did in secret during the week, on the nights alone—and there were other things he didn’t want Jennifer to get wind of. His departure from his job hadn’t come about in precisely the way he’d indicated when he’d glossed the matter on their first night together, at Amy’s. Had he lied to her? He’d omitted certain specifics. She didn’t need to hear about his cavalier approach to sick days or his periodic failure to bill clients, or about the humiliation he’d suffered when, one day, he’d sneaked downstairs to have a beer in the restaurant attached to the building’s lobby and a partner standing at the bar had loudly upbraided him over some minor mistake, then called him a drunk. And there was something else Jennifer might not be happy knowing: he’d lately been taking walks in Central Park, hunting for her beneath the trees near Sheep Meadow and the Great Lawn. On his walks he became furtive, nervous; he imagined that if he could catch her at her easel, her brush in her hand, painting a picture of the known world, he might—he might what? Hide behind a tree and, like a trespasser hopped up on adrenaline, watch her? Call her cell phone from his and, while pretending to be nowhere near, chat? He poured her wine and shoved the cork back into the bottle. He enjoyed a moment of pride over not having any alcohol himself. In the bedroom, he said, “Here.” She took the glass. She sat propped against pillows. She said, “A sip will help me sleep.” “Right.” “It helps before bed, you know?” “Yes.” “Is something the matter?” she asked, because she’d heard his tone. “No. I guess not. No.” He looked at her body outlined beneath the blankets. How could he tell her what was wrong? What was wrong? Was it simply that he didn’t care to watch her do what he did? He felt afraid for her—was that it? “It’s nothing, I’m fine,” he said, while she drank. But later that night he was unable to sleep. He got up and wandered into the kitchen, where he found Danny’s liquor in a cabinet above the stove. He went into the living room and sat up until three drinking Scotch. His mood followed a well-worn path: halfway through his second drink, he knew his life was good—he was a lucky man. Everything, even the glass in his hand—especially the glass in his hand, crystal, heavy-bottomed, warm to his touch—felt right to him. As he drank, his ebullience increased, and he regarded his expensive surroundings as somehow belonging to him, or, more appropriately, as a preview of what he’d surely one day have. But after another few shots his thoughts veered into a familiar loop. Who was he fooling? How would he ever have any of this? Why was he unable to take possession of the world’s bounties? Why had he and Jennifer not ever gone dancing, for Christ’s sake? What was their plan? They met, climbed into bed, leaped out of bed, said goodbye—was he in love? Was she? Or were they just fucking? They had so much to be thankful for, so much. They had each other. His face was numb. He gave himself a bit more to drink, put away Danny’s bottle, rinsed the glass, and groped his way down the hall to the bedroom, where he stood in his underwear beside the bed. The shades were drawn, the windows blacked out. As Christopher’s eyes adjusted to the dark, he saw that each window—there were three—was haloed in a corona of light, the city’s nighttime glow seeping in through the narrow chinks between glass and shade. He felt the impulse to wake Jennifer and show her the illuminated windows, as if the phenomenon represented something uniquely worth experiencing, like a solar eclipse. Three black suns hovered over her as she slept. Make that four, counting the Serra. The following afternoon, he woke beside her. How was she feeling today? A little better, she told him. He, of course, was hungover. But that wasn’t a life-or-death problem, was it? She wondered aloud if she’d given him whatever bug had bitten her, and he promised her she hadn’t, then asked her—he hadn’t planned this; it just came out of his mouth—if she would consider showing him her painting, the one she’d begun in the days after they met. Dry-mouthed, he added, “Don’t be scared.” After that, he went ahead and joined her for drinks when they got together. Who took the lead in this new policy? It was she, after all, who didn’t make much fuss over a glass of wine. Following his old rule, he waited until dinner was finished before pouring his first, so that he could have a decent amount in a short span of time without causing a sodden evening. When he drank, she drank. Sometimes she smoked. She liked to stand at a window and exhale through the screen. When the nights got warm, she took to opening the screen and leaning out. Late in June, a heat wave hit. The daytime sky grew white with becalmed air trapped over the city. Faint thunder could sometimes be heard, but storms never materialized, showers never arrived. On the evening of the solstice, Christopher and Jennifer hauled suitcases, groceries, and her painting—shrouded, for protection, in bubble wrap and muslin—up six flights to Bert and Lucie’s top-floor apartment. The temperature rose higher and higher as they climbed. When they reached the landing, they stopped to rest. She recovered against a wall, and he leaned his weight on the doorknob, then turned the key in the lock, and they tumbled in. She went straight to the bathroom and ran a cold tub, while he dumped ice cubes from trays to glasses in the kitchen. He stood before the open freezer, letting mist touch his face. He could hear her splashing in the bathroom, and he heard Bert’s fish tank bubbling in the living room. What did Bert and Lucie keep in the freezer? Was that a bottle cap poking out from beneath two ice-cream cartons? He pulled out the bottle of gin, unscrewed the top, mopped his face with a dishtowel, refilled the ice trays. It was still light out. Instructions for feeding the piranha had been left on the counter beside the sink. Christopher carried his drink down the hall and peered into the tank. He tapped its glass wall. “Come out, come out, wherever you are.” The bathroom door opened, closed. “I fixed you a drink! It’s in the kitchen!” he called, and heard her walking in that direction. A moment later, he smelled cigarette smoke. He followed down the hall and saw her bent over the windowsill, her head craned out, her back to him. She was naked and damp; the wet ends of her hair stuck to her shoulders. She looked, he thought, with her hair streaming back and her breasts proudly showing, not unlike a ship’s figurehead, sea-sprayed. Christopher would remember this vision—Jennifer’s raised butt, framed against the building behind Bert and Lucie’s, and, above that building, chimneys and water towers crowning roof after roof on the horizon—long after he’d forgotten the things they’d said in these rooms where he and she became partners. He said, “It’s too hot to eat.” Dinner lay in a bag on the floor. Propped against a wall was her painting. “No kidding.” Smoke drifted from her mouth. He leaned against the doorframe and shook his glass, clinking melting ice. “We’ll have to make do with this.” Was he trying to be funny? Frankly, he wasn’t sure. She shifted her weight from one foot to the other. Her feet were pink from her bath. She said, “That’s fine. It’s summertime,” and, as if on cue, he sneezed. “Bless you,” she said, and he told her, “Something’s in bloom somewhere.” She flicked ashes and came in from the window. She squeezed past him on her way to the bedroom. Dying light brightened a corner of floor and the wall beside the painting. Soon it would be dark. She returned wearing one of Lucie’s see-through nighties. He refilled their glasses. “To home away from home.” “Cheers,” she said. In that heat, without food, they were quickly smashed. He grabbed hold of her lace nightie and, like a man in a conga line, hanging on to keep time with the leader, trotted after her down the hall. In the living room she turned on a light, and they both collapsed onto Bert and Lucie’s sofa and watched the piranha tank as if it were a television set, a television broadcasting leafy weeds, luminous rocks, and bubbles, but no fish. Was he ready to see the painting? Would he be equipped to comment? What might he say? He was going to need a refill. He said, “Is it worth it?” “What?” she said. “Is what worth what?” “Art. Painting. You know.” That made her laugh. “The truth about you is, you’re kind of a funny guy. I don’t know why you fight it,” she told him. She took his hand in hers, and he turned to look at her. She pulled him close to her on the sofa. He laid his head on her lap. In a minute he would sit up and ask her if she was ready to show him the painting. She would stand up, go barefoot and tipsy to the kitchen, get it, bring it back, and, after warning, “It may not be finished, so be nice,” unwrap it. No. In a minute she would get up, and he would say, “Hey, do you mind,” then hand her his glass, and she would go to the kitchen, make him a fresh drink with new ice, and bring it to him along with the painting. He would be careful, in his remarks on her work, to avoid overstating his praises. Yet he would not want her to doubt either his fundamental enthusiasm or her own promise. If the painting was accomplished, or even if not, he would find and appreciate an aspect of it—an element reflecting technical execution and artistic choice, a movement of brushstrokes indicating an intensity of gray light behind bare trees, say, since she’d begun in winter. Or she might have revised with the changing seasons, painting over winter’s silvers with the pale greens and eggshell blues that signify spring. There might be a figure in the painting, a man walking quickly through the Park, as he himself had done when out searching for her at her work; and maybe, if the painting showed a man, a man like him, beside a particular tree, rock, or bench, near a path that wound beside the banks of a familiar pond, he might recognize the topography and speak confidently about her handling of perspective, and about the way the light reflected off the water in precisely that way, in that place. While he mapped out his reaction to her painting, she lit another cigarette. Though he could not see the flame, he saw its image come and go, mirrored in the glass aquarium, and he sensed her hands and arms fluttering in the air above his head. He heard the match being struck. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
A Secret Station	At a decent interval after his seventy-first birthday, Martine sat him down: she was leaving him, moving to New York. To be with a man he presumed she’d met at that conference—last fall, had it been?—from which she’d returned two days late, after supposedly seeing friends and taking in the new production of “Così” at the Met. She would come up a couple of days a week to teach the rest of her classes, then figure out what was next. She would ask for nothing in their settlement. Well, no blame to her: if she lived to be ninety, as more and more people were doing, she had half her life ahead of her. She said, “The one thing I swore not to do, I swore not to be trite and ask you to understand.” Oh? Had she not also sworn to forsake all others? But he couldn’t very well get on his high horse about that. When the spring semester ended, he went in and told Jack Stephenson that he was retiring. Jack had been urging this for years—“You could get back into research”; “You and Martine could travel”—but now he said, “Are you sure this is the time?” “What’s this?” He sniffed. “The sweet scent of compassion?” Jack shook his head. “I just don’t want to have to replace you with some twerp out of Johns Hopkins.” This was Jack giving himself airs: who from Johns Hopkins would come to a state university up in the snow country, with a hospital that looked like a parking garage? “You’ll bear up,” he said. “With what you’ve been paying me, you can hire two twerps.” “There’s that.” Jack frowned at the flat computer screen on his desk. “One second. Let me deal with this idiocy.” He hammered at the keyboard with his index fingers, stopped, nodded, and clicked the mouse. “Sometimes I wish I were back tapping old ladies’ knees with a rubber hammer.” He took a deep breath, held it, let it out. “Since we’re being frank, I have to tell you, I do have some concern. I know it hasn’t been an easy year. Do you really want another change in your life just now?” “Aren’t you the soul of delicacy. They ought to have made you dean long ago.” “Whoa.” Jack raised a hand as if to protect his face. “I’m not your enemy, Don.” “It’s a moot point anyway,” he said. “I’ve decided to become a Doctor Without Borders.” “You can’t be serious.” In fairness to Jack, Martine hadn’t got this joke, either. “Well, I mean, of course there’s nothing worthier. But, my God, you’ve been in the classroom for what? Longer than I’ve been here.” “I do like the way you put things.” “Don. With all due respect, I’m not quite seeing you as Mother Teresa. Couldn’t you assuage your conscience by volunteering at a clinic once a week?” “The still, small voice,” he said. Jack looked at him over the top of his half-glasses. “You have lost your fucking mind. O.K., look, here’s what we’re going to do. We’re going to keep your office as is. You go off and think this over, and when you’re ready to—” He held up both hands. “Will it save time if I tell you that I’m not interested in what you’re going to do?” Jack took off his glasses and laid them on his desk. “Don, are you talking to someone?” “A higher power?” “I can suggest a very good—” “You’ll have to excuse me. I hear that still, small voice calling.” “Always smarter than everyone,” Jack said. “I’ve never doubted that you could dance rings around me. But, just as your friend—and if I’m out of line here you can tell me to go peddle my papers—isn’t it possible that you’re well out of this thing?” “I suspect ‘marriage’ is the word you’re looking for,” he said. “If you don’t mind, I’ll be dancing off.” They’d planned the trip back in November, at Red Fish Blue Fish, the one really decent restaurant in town. Dinner was on Martine: the English Department had just made her a full professor. It helped to think that at this point she hadn’t fully decided to leave. Paris, Amsterdam, Prague, and on to Rome—to visit his daughter and her husband—then to Crete for the first three weeks of July. “Can people still go to Jim Morrison’s grave?” Martine had said. “In Père Lachaise?” “I have no idea,” he said. “He was the singer, was he not? I wouldn’t have thought he came up to your idea of a poet.” “He didn’t,” she said. “He was just the most beautiful man who ever lived. Present company excepted.” She broke off a morsel of bread and dipped it into the saucer of olive oil. “So, will Rebecca be her usual intransigent self?” “You’ve met Rebecca once. In ten years.” “Q.E.D,” she said. “At any rate, we’re only going to be there for two days.” “I guess I shouldn’t complain,” she said. “I am a home wrecker. Wasn’t that the draw for you in the first place?” Before leaving for the airport, he flushed away all but one of his last Viagra samples; then he flew across the Atlantic beside Martine’s empty seat. In Paris, he swallowed the last blue pill and, for the first time in his life, picked up a prostitute: a tall, broad-shouldered young woman made taller than him by spike heels that had her on tiptoes. “So you know,” she said as she took his hand, “I am not a twahn-nee.” What a world: did they now have trainees? He instructed her in what he liked, but found that he no longer liked what he liked. In Amsterdam, he drank a bottle of wine with dinner and had a brandy afterward, then went to a coffeehouse and smoked marijuana, which he hadn’t tried since a party on the night Robert Kennedy announced that he was running for President. It had been amusing then, but this overwhelmed him. He couldn’t imagine what was happening to him—could it have been laced with something? When he managed to find his hotel again, he spent what he believed to be hours lying on his side on the white sexagonal tiles of the bathroom floor, unable to raise himself to do his vomiting in the toilet. In the morning, he put the bathmat and the towel he’d cleaned up with in a plastic bag meant for valet service and took a taxi to the airport. Instead of continuing on to Prague and Rome, he flew back to New York, paying fifteen hundred dollars to change his ticket. In a Portosan off the bicycle path along the Hudson, he feasted on a street boy who must have known he’d never done this before: artfully unshaven, hair artfully mussed. The boy let loose in his mouth, then beat him, took his wallet, and kicked him with the snakeskin cowboy boots that had been the pretext for their conversation. In the emergency room at St. Vincent’s, he told the young woman doctor that he was a doctor, too; she slipped him an envelope with a few Percodans to hold him till he could get to an oral surgeon. When he got back upstate, he arranged to rent the main house to Karen Friedman, a resident in neurology who’d been his most promising student two years—no, three years—earlier, and her partner, as the expression went, a dumpy older woman named Gloria, who managed the Staples store at the mall out on the bypass. He put the Volvo away in the barn and covered it with a blue plastic tarpaulin. (Martine used to say the car made her feel like a “doctor’s-wife impersonator,” which was why she’d picked it out.) He drove his Jeep up the hill behind the house to the cabin that he and Nathan had built the summer Nathan turned sixteen: their last father-son project. A couple of years ago, he’d had a contractor install a woodstove and a composting privy. Electricity came through a series of hundred-foot orange cords, the first plugged into the outlet down on the back porch, the last connected to a power strip for the computer, coffeemaker, microwave, small cubic refrigerator, and combination radio/compact-disk player. The cabin had served as a guesthouse and a—what word wouldn’t be pretentious? The place where he’d done his taxes. He stacked split cordwood between the trees around the cabin, making a meandering wall with a gap by the front door. On a tree a little way down the steep path to the house, he hung a clapperless bell and a large eyebolt, so visitors could give warning. Jimmy Huggins, whose office had been across the hall from his, had taken over the reconstruction of his mouth. The choice was between implants (which Jimmy said were now the “gold standard”) and bridges, which would involve grinding down undamaged teeth on either side of the extractions. In the meantime, to manage the pain he phoned in a Percodan prescription to the Rite Aid in the mall (they knew him at the family-owned pharmacy on University Avenue), in the name of Kaspar Hauser. He had brought a single carton of books up from his library: Anthony Powell, Simenon (to see if he could get his French back), Patrick O’Brian, the Oxford Shakespeare. He hadn’t read Shakespeare since Princeton—half a century ago—and how could you stand before God without having tasted the best his world had to offer? (He now allowed himself God thoughts: intellectual integrity was no longer worth the vigilance.) Sitting in the Morris chair, he worked his way through “Lear” again, but “Othello” turned out to be a bit close to home. He filled gallon plastic jugs, ten at a time, at the kitchen sink, and carried them up in the Jeep. He had a spatterware basin, a handsome thing Martine had bought, for doing dishes, rinsing with mouthwash (brushing was still uncomfortable), shaving, and washing above the waist. Saturday night was bath night, as in his childhood; after the girls went into town, for a movie or for dinner with whoever their friends were, he walked down to the house, filled the clawfoot tub that Martine had restored, and poured in their perfumed bath salts. If they knew, they knew: he was becoming a strange old man. Percodan was no longer doing the trick, so Kaspar Hauser had been put on Dilaudid. He moved his bowels in the privy—because of the drugs, he supposed, he’d had to resort to laxatives—but pissed on the ground, like Adam. Sometimes he would unplug the power strip, fling the end of the orange cord out the window, and let the cabin float free. He had given thought to the possibility of aids, and decided that it was unlikely. His mouth had been bloodied only afterward, but he had swallowed the boy’s semen, not knowing what else to do and not wanting to seem—untender. So he drew a sample from his arm and sent it to the lab. The negative result, of course, meant nothing: he would have to take another sample in six months. He made a note on the December 31st page of the year’s DayMinder: 1/8—Draw blood. One Saturday night, early in the fall, he went upstairs after his bath, the towel around his waist, smelling of roses and remote on Dilaudid, his old man’s dugs swinging. In the master bedroom, he found a pair of Gloria’s black lace underwear in the top drawer of what had been his dresser. They were so large that the scalloped rim slipped down to his buttocks, exposing his pubic hair, still mockingly black: the hair on his head had been white for years. He tried to imagine himself inhabiting the bulky, penis-free body that would fill these—“panties” was the word—but couldn’t quite cross over. He lay down on the bed and turned on his side. He’d got so lanky that his knees banged together. He put a pillow between them, and reached into the panties to handle himself, to make his disgrace definitive, but the poor thing was dead and perhaps this made his disgrace definitive. The curtains were open, the shades up, and he saw the leaves of the maple tree suddenly brighten to orange. Had nuclear devices exploded over Syracuse and a hundred other cities—the promised end, at long last? No: headlights. The girls coming home. He would let himself be caught, and that disgrace would set him free. But it was only a car passing by. His first wife had been a nurse: this was back when such things were countenanced. Wide hips, full breasts, which turned out to have troublingly large aureoles, a fondness for old movie musicals and Dave Brubeck. She thought he looked like Dave Brubeck, and in those days, before Martine had urged laser eye surgery on him, he may well have. Andrea had had a bad habit (which he’d never called to her attention) of prefacing statements with “Truth to tell.” He could no longer remember what they’d talked about, late in the night. She had stopped working when she began to show, and stayed home to raise Nathan, then Rebecca. Another age of the world. And, years later, the younger woman, the son hanging up the phone, the weeping daughter telling him she would never have a family. How could this, all so—“trite” was the word—have given any of them either pain or joy? He had saved lives. At first he’d tried to keep count—could he ever have been that young?—but these were lives that any doctor could have saved. Once, when he was still in practice, he had emergency-room duty and they brought in a teen-age girl: some fool woman, a hairdresser of all things, had thought she knew how to perform an abortion—it was that long ago—and afterward he had put the girl on the Pill. Half a year later she came to him in his office, pregnant again; insanely, he had given in, risking not just the loss of his license but, in those days, a charge of murder. When the girl came to him one more time, he turned her away, and that same night—or so he’d taken to telling the story; it was really the following night—she died in the emergency room, of an overdose of Nembutal. Well, any doctor of his generation had such stories. She was a homely, overweight girl named Cheryl—Robinson, she had told him, but it was actually something else—with blackheads on her nose. She smelled. He had looked into it a little afterward; he had been that young. The parents were divorced, the mother had a boyfriend and what was then called a drinking problem, and had taken out an order of protection against the father. All three, apparently, had beaten the girl. Cheryl Robinson had been sixteen, ten years older than Rebecca. And now Rebecca was old enough to be her mother. Though apparently she had chosen to be no one’s mother. The night after Cheryl Robinson died, he had told Andrea that he’d had enough of practice and meant to teach full time. And he suggested that they adopt a child. “This is a turnaround,” she said, and poured herself more wine. “So why did I get my tubes tied?” The next day—and it really was the next day—he made a date to get together with the receptionist who’d been flirting with him. Since she was married, too, there would be no complications. Martine had been his sixth adventure, if that was the word: of this he had kept count. He’d been seated next to her at a dinner party when she’d first come to the university as an assistant professor, specializing in the Victorians. Did she not find them a little stodgy? “Everybody thinks that,” she’d said. “The Victorians were hot hot hot. Of course, it was all encoded. You should come in when I teach ‘Dover Beach.’ ” “I warn you,” he said, “I’m a hard sell.” He saw Andrea looking at them from across the table. “I’ll sell you,” she said. He sat in the back of her classroom among the undergraduates, who had stared at him when he came in, and listened as she lectured. “ ‘Begin, and cease, and then again begin / With tremulous cadence slow’? I mean, what does this sound like, boys and girls?” Her black T-shirt fit so snugly that he could see the nipples of her small, unbound breasts. “Intriguing,” he said afterward, when they’d ordered their drinks. “But weren’t you taking things somewhat out of context?” “What is context?” She took off her narrow black-framed glasses and cleaned the lenses with the bottom of her T-shirt. “Ah. Am I guilty of old thinking?” “It’s charming,” she said. “It’s so old it’s transgressive.” “Then that’s a good thing, yes?” “I have an idea you don’t transgress enough.” “You might be surprised,” he said. She put the glasses back on, and her face seemed prettier again. “Oh, I don’t mean that. Of course, you have a reputation.” “Have I?” “Or else I wouldn’t be here with you. I like a woman-hater every once in a while. It might be fun to take your cherry.” “Well,” he said. “If you think you’re man enough.” There had been an ice storm the night before he was to go in for the last, most difficult extractions; he scraped away frost to look out the window and saw the bare trees silvery with sun. Apparently he had brought wood in last night, a kindness for which he was grateful. He opened the draft and built up a fire. His skin felt raw, as if he had a low-grade fever. He swallowed a Dilaudid with his coffee and turned on the radio, to a secret station he had found: “music” that was simply noises and drumbeats, about guns and money and women, and where even an old man, provided he was by himself, was allowed to listen in on all the rich obscenity. Bitches on their knees, black men chanting about what the bitches must do. He heard the bell ring and turned the radio off. When he opened the door, he felt the cruel air, and saw Karen, in her black leather jacket. “It’s cozy in here,” she said. She unwrapped her red scarf, unzipped the jacket. A pretty and delicate young woman—a gamine, she would once have been called—with short black hair. “Could I get you some coffee?” “Maybe I’d better take it along? We should allow some extra time because of the roads. Actually, can we take your Jeep down to my car? The path is all ice.” “I still don’t think it’s necessary for anyone to drive me.” “They’re going to put you under,” she said. “This is not discussable.” He’d tried to research the interaction of Dilaudid and sodium pentathol. Not ideal, but probably all right. “Why don’t I drive us there at least,” he said. Her little Japanese putt-putt had only rear-wheel drive. “And you can drink your coffee. Can you drive a standard shift? Assuming it becomes necessary.” “All dykes can drive standard,” she said. “It’s in our DNA.” At the stop sign, he put on his turn signal, to take the shortcut. He crept down Breakneck Hill Road in first gear, steering from one patch of sand to another. His quietude was deepening now; the ice had bent the trees on either side, making the road look like a tunnel. When they came to the curve, he felt the Jeep become a heavy object gliding down, its back end sweeping to the left. He heard Karen yell “Shit!” But then the tires bit into sand, he cut the wheel, and the Jeep straightened out and resumed its crawl. In his old life, his heart would have begun pounding now in a delayed adrenaline reaction. He looked over and saw Karen using a Kleenex to mop coffee off the leg of her jeans. In the waiting room, she sat next to him, a paperback copy of “The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat” in her lap. “You know, I never got around to reading that,” he said. “This is what made me want to go into neurology,” she said. “I have to say, I’m loathing it this time. All this bogus compassion. And his bogus beard.” “Since when have you been so fierce?” “Sorry,” she said. “I’m just in a shitty mood. Let’s worry about you.” “Ah, that’s a young man’s game. And what are you in a shitty mood about?” “About half the time,” she said. “See? You’re not the only one who can be evasive.” As instructed, he had gone without breakfast; coming up out of the anesthesia, he vomited bile. On the way back out of town, Karen pulled into the quilted-metal diner on the bypass and helped him up the three steps. Really no need: they were dotted with ice-melting pellets, and he felt remarkably normal, considering where he had been. Karen ate an omelette while he drank coffee and studied the map of Greece on his placemat: a country in the shape of a splatter. Islands called the Sporades? He had never heard of them. Must this not be where the word “sporadic” came from? “You sure you don’t want some rice pudding?” she said. “You wouldn’t have to chew. You should eat something.” He shook his head. “Here, take my jelly at least. You need to get your blood sugar up. We have apple, or—let’s see. Grape.” “Ah. The Puritan or the Mediterranean. This will tell you something about me.” He peeled back the seal on the tiny oblong tub and picked up his spoon. “Out, vile jelly!” It tasted sweet, but not of apple particularly. He swallowed without letting it linger in his mouth; he still didn’t dare feel with his tongue where the teeth had been. “Martine and I were going to spend the summer in Crete.” “Do you know this is the first time I’ve heard you say her name?” He put down his spoon. “Do you know,” he said, “that you have a gift for making yourself offensive?” “Donald, why are you being so ugly to me?” “Perhaps that’s my gift,” he said. Back in the passenger seat, the inside of the Jeep looked familiar but reversed, like a mirror world. Karen waited for a Sleepy’s truck to pass, then pulled into traffic. “Listen, I want you to stay down at the house tonight. Gloria and I can take the guest room.” She meant Rebecca’s room; Nathan’s had been redone as a study for Martine. “Absolutely not,” he said. “Then I’ll bring a sleeping bag up.” “This is foolish. I—watch out.” “I see him.” She hit the horn at a minivan that seemed to be nosing into them from the left lane. “You don’t even have a phone up there.” “For what purpose?” he said. “I’ll let you think about that.” She shifted down to pass the Sleepy’s truck. “God, I want one of these,” she said. “It makes me feel like a real lezzie.” “Do you consider yourself not a real lesbian?” “Well.” She looked in the rearview mirror and swung back in front of the truck. “I’ve been with men. It’s not the same.” “I’ve been with men,” he said, “if it comes to that.” “You?” “Well. A man. I found it just the same.” “When was this?” “Oh, back when I was willing to try anything.” He had told Karen only that he’d been beaten and robbed. “So,” she said. “This must explain why our bath salts keep running low. I was picturing you splashing around with some loose woman.” “That’s a distasteful picture.” What they’d done to his mouth was beginning to hurt. “Listen, I need to fill this prescription they gave me. I don’t suppose you’d go into Rite Aid for me?” Little chance that they might accuse Kaspar Hauser of impersonating Donald Blakey to fill a prescription for codeine, but nevertheless. “Of course.” She put on the turn signal. “So who would have thought. No wonder we get along so well. Both galloping bisexuals.” “Hardly that,” he said. “Unless you mean off into the sunset.” She pulled into the parking lot, and began prowling for a space. “Now I’m supposed to tell you you’re not old,” she said. “Aren’t we tired of this dance?” She glanced over at the white-and-red Staples store. “You know, it used to be that all I had to do was see that logo and I’d feel myself blushing.” “That’s a lovely stage,” he said. “Stage,” she said. “That’s a lovely word.” Neither Nathan nor Rebecca had come to his wedding; he’d thought they’d at least have been tempted by an August weekend on the Vineyard. At Martine’s insistence, he invited them for Thanksgiving that year; it was Rebecca’s first semester at Bryn Mawr and Nathan’s junior year at U.C. Santa Cruz. Martine reserved a fresh-killed turkey, and made the dressing with truffles that had just come in to the market on University Avenue. The wine was a Sancerre that Martine had discovered at Vin Ordinaire, and that was now having a vogue among the faculty. He and Nathan had spent the morning in the woods; Nathan felled five trees with the chainsaw, and they took turns cutting them up and splitting the logs with the maul. As the weak sun rose higher, Nathan took off his denim jacket, then his plaid shirt. He was broad across the chest and shoulders, narrow at the waist and hips; as he raised the maul high and brought it down again and again, sweat darkened his black T-shirt in an inverted triangle between his shoulder blades. It had been clear since Nathan was in seventh grade that he would never go to medical school. Now, as he looked at his son’s strong body, this seemed perfectly right. Late in the afternoon, the kids came downstairs flushed and red-eyed. Nathan, he saw, had not changed out of his bluejeans and sweaty T-shirt; you could smell his rank odor through the scent of roasting turkey. Rebecca slouched next to him at the far end of the sofa. Martine opened a second bottle of wine—they had killed the first before the kids made their appearance—and brought out a tray of roasted chestnuts. She extended it to Rebecca, who shook her head. Nathan took a handful and asked if they could watch what he called the “Macy’s Day Parade.” Martine gave him a look that would have quelled one of her students, but handed him the clicker and went to take the bird out of the oven. Nathan started going at the shell of a chestnut with his teeth, staring between his knees at giant balloons representing cartoon characters, floating above the streets of New York. Rebecca had got hold of the scalpel they used as a letter opener, and sat slicing parallel cuts into the flesh of a green olive. Martine came back in with a third bottle of wine. She broke the cork, tried again, and had to force it down into the bottle with one leg of the nutcracker. “Ten minutes, boys and girls. Rebecca? Would you care for more wine?” Rebecca looked up. “Would I care for it? I mean, what does that even mean?” Nathan laughed. “Somebody’s losing her shit. Listen, can me and Bec carve the turkey?” “I suppose,” Martine said. “I’m a little impaired myself. I’ll show you where we keep the knives.” “Same place as always, right?” Nathan stood up. “In the knife thing? Come on, Bec. Bring your scalpel. You can give it a hysterectomy.” They went into the kitchen. Martine said, “I wish I had some.” “Some what?” he said. “Oh, come on. Couldn’t you smell it on them? Maybe they’d share a little.” “They’re probably just ill at ease,” he said. “I suspect Nathan has experimented some, as all—” He heard a putt-putting noise out in the kitchen, guessed what it was, and burst through the door to see Nathan holding the chainsaw and Rebecca, index fingers pressed into her ears, laughing. Nathan revved the saw to a deafening snarl, white smoke belched into the room, the giant turkey twisted on the platter, then flew apart, splattering meat and stuffing onto the wall Martine had redone in blue milk paint. Now the saw was idling again, and Martine was standing in the doorway. She walked over to the counter, set her wineglass down, and said, “You know, you’re absolutely fucking right. We should just make this a performance piece.” She picked up a severed drumstick and hurled it at the window, breaking a pane of the original glass whose waves and bubbles Andrea had particularly admired. Nathan stared at her, then shut the saw down. “Wait a second, wait a second,” she said. “I’ve still got its dick.” She reached into the garbage and came up with the turkey’s neck, which she’d boiled along with the giblets to make the gravy, took it in her fist, and jammed it against the front of her black velveteen slacks. “Get down and suck it,” she said to her husband. Rebecca said, “I’m afraid.” She began to weep. “Daddy?” Martine let the turkey neck drop and put an arm around her shoulder. The greasy hand left a mark on Rebecca’s silk blouse. “Sweetie, we’re all afraid,” she said. “Can we just agree that I’m shit and make this good for your father?” After they’d all pitched in to clean up the mess, they called Domino’s, and played Scrabble: Martine and Nathan against him and Rebecca. He put on “Sketches of Spain,” and Nathan, Rebecca, and Martine sat on the sofa and smoked some of Nathan’s marijuana; he sat in his leather armchair and put his hand up when the cigarette came his way. He watched the three of them get quiet. At one point, he thought he saw Martine put a hand on Nathan’s thigh, but by then he had been sipping Cognac for hours. The next day, he and Martine drove them to the train. They all agreed that they must do this again over Christmas. Martine hugged Rebecca, and Rebecca’s hands hesitated, then rested on the back of Martine’s coat. But something must have been said on the way to New York. Or perhaps visiting their mother restored their sense of perspective. At any rate, he saw Nathan and Rebecca again only at their college graduations and their weddings, from which Martine absented herself. At Rebecca’s wedding, in the cloisters at Bryn Mawr, he saw that Andrea had cut her hair and dyed the ends—there was a term for this. She’d got a desk job with unicef after burning out at Calvary Hospital. They sat with Nathan between them, and he noticed that she wasn’t wearing a ring; Rebecca had told him that the marriage to the real-estate broker was in trouble. He watched Rebecca and Giancarlo perform their waltz; Giancarlo was the better dancer, as Fred Astaire was said to be better than Ginger Rogers, though wasn’t there now a revisionist view? He instructed himself to quell his mistrust: it was all those old movies in which American girls were pestered by European hand-kissers. This Giancarlo seemed solid enough: a visiting professor of economics at Wharton. What he’d wanted with an American college girl, however serious-minded—her dress put that on display for all the men to see. The band struck up “I Won’t Dance,” which argued some wit, he thought. The floor filled up. He held out his hand to Andrea and she came to him, a kindness he did not deserve. “Do you think they’ll be happy?” he said. “They’re going to live in Rome,” she said. “What’s not to be happy?” “And how are you?” He put his right hand on her waist (he could feel a stiff undergarment), and foxtrotted her toward the middle of the floor, the tips of her breasts brushing his jacket front. “Truth to tell”—she showed teeth in what must have been meant as a smile— “I’m much better alone.” It had been dark for hours when he heard the bell ring down the path. Damn the woman. He was sipping Talisker, for the taste, really, and playing solitaire on his computer. He got up and opened the door: not Karen but Gloria, wearing a backpack and carrying a sausagelike nylon bag. “No,” he said. “Karen said you’d give me an argument. She got called in to the hospital.” “That’s never good,” he said. “You’re welcome to come in for a drink.” “Except you’re blocking the door. It’s cold out here.” “Forgive me.” He stepped aside. “I just didn’t want there to be a misunderstanding.” She set the sleeping bag down, wriggled out of her backpack, and unzipped her down vest. He fetched another glass. “Here, I can get that.” She took it from his hand and poured herself a couple of fingers, then added a dribble of water from the jug. “My husband used to drink Macallan. He said a little water brought out the nose.” “I didn’t realize you’d been married. Have my chair.” “I’m O.K.” She sat on the floor, her back against his bed. “Yeah, five years. Amazing, huh? My wedding dress was a size 6.” He poured himself another finger and sat back down in the Morris chair. He couldn’t decide whether he liked her hoarse voice. “So how’s the mouth?” she said. “Karen tells me they went in with earthmovers.” “I don’t think there’s going to be a problem.” “Meaning there is a problem?” The pain was still there, but at such a distance that it didn’t seem to apply to him. “I mean that it’s fine,” he said. “So are we going to fight about this?” “About?” “Me staying.” “I don’t believe I have the energy,” he said. “If you do stay, could I ask that you simply be here quietly? Without offense. I just don’t feel up to carrying on a conversation.” “Don’t worry about me, I have thick skin. Thick everything.” She put a hand to her belly and made the flesh shake. He looked away. “Make yourself comfortable,” he said. “If you can. There are books here.” “I brought mine.” She reached for her backpack. “Just tell me when it’s lights-out.” After a while, he felt the room begin to cool and, as if she felt it, too—well, she did, of course—she got up and fed the stove. He clicked on Deal to start another game. The drugs he’d taken at six-thirty were wearing off, and he took another codeine for the pain, another Dilaudid—because he was addicted, he supposed, though it was hardly the desperate condition they wanted you to believe—and an Ambien to get to sleep. If he weren’t careful, one of these mornings he would fail to wake up. (If he continued to be careful, then it would be some other morning.) He lost, clicked on Deal again, studied the array, then moved a red two onto a black three and dragged the king into the empty space. He seemed to think someone had hold of his upper arm, guiding him toward what must be the bed. At one point someone had said, “Are you all right?” There had been a noise, some sort of disturbance. There was a connection among these things, or, if not a connection, at least a sequence. But such considerations existed far outside him, in the world of light and edges and face after face after face. He opened his eyes and it was daylight, and wide Gloria had been replaced by narrow Karen, fitting a paper filter into the coffeemaker. His mouth was hurting; his back, too, as if he had thrown it out again. Could time possibly have gone backward, to that thing that had happened? But there was a rule against that. The cabin stank of whiskey. He closed his eyes and the negative afterimage of the window appeared, complete with the tree branches outside. He followed it, now here, now here, now here, until it faded, then opened his eyes and burned it in again. He woke up, smelling coffee. He ran his tongue along his lower lip: it smarted, felt fat, and he tasted blood. He woke up and Karen was sitting on the bed. “Say again?” she said. “What time is it?” “Ten-thirty. So how much of this have you been taking?” She rattled the vial of Dilaudid in his face. “You scared the living shit out of Gloria.” “Where is Gloria?” “Where she always is. Berating some stockboy.” She got up and set the pills on the table. “Could you drink a little coffee?” He turned on his side—what in God’s name had he done to his back?—to fold the pillow double against the headboard and watched her fill a cup and pour in milk. “Thank you.” She had put sugar in, though somehow he hadn’t seen her do it. “So. Am I being called to account for my sins?” “I’m not the Puritan,” she said. “You have a medical problem.” “Granting it’s a problem. That’s your assumption.” “I think Kaspar Hauser could validate my assumption. If we could reach him in the Black Forest.” “Ah, at least someone appreciates my little jokes.” “I’m surprised you haven’t been busted,” she said. “How stupid do you think people are?” She sat down on the bed. “Apparently you passed out and fell into your keyboard. And I guess you smacked the floor pretty hard. Let me see you.” She rested a finger on his lower lip and pulled it down gently. He hissed in. “Not terrible,” she said. “I made us oatmeal. In the microwave.” Point of information, apparently. “You haven’t been eating.” “I need to take something,” he said. “I hurt everywhere.” She shook her head. “Not on my watch. I don’t doubt that you hurt. We’re going to get you to someone who treats these things.” He worked his elbows to get himself sitting up. “Oh? By whose authority? I’ve had about enough of you, I can tell you that.” “You’ll feel better,” she said. “You’re damn right, I will. I want you out of my house. The both of you. You and your fat lesbian whatever-she-is.” She looked at him and got up off the bed. “Good,” she said. “A little honesty.” She took her leather jacket off the peg. “I have to say, you were a wonderful teacher. Beyond that—I don’t know, I guess I’m glad to know that there wasn’t anything beyond that.” She wound the scarf around her neck and put the vials of pills into her jacket pocket. “You have an appointment for one-forty-five. I’ll give you some privacy to get yourself cleaned up.” Nathan flew in from Seattle, then back to attend to his Lexus dealership and be present for his son’s sixth-grade graduation. Rebecca, coming in from Rome, missed Nathan by a day—the two of them hadn’t seen each other for years—and stayed on, visiting for the half hour the rules allowed and sleeping out at the house, in her old room. She told him that the girls had moved their belongings out in a U-Haul. They’d been perfectly lovely to her, she said; the thin one had invited her to have coffee. When he had got through the worst of it, Rebecca took him to have his bridgework completed, and on Thanksgiving night he was able to eat with her at Red Fish Blue Fish. She had the veal, and what she said was a good Pinot Grigio; he had the branzino, a fish once unknown, and was drinking mineral water for now. She was not going back to Italy, she told him. She and Giancarlo—but this probably wasn’t the time. “Come, come,” he said. “I’m not such a delicate soul.” “No,” she said. “No one’s ever accused you of that.” “Ah. I take it you’ve been talking to your mother.” She nodded. “I’m going down when you—over Christmas.” “When I can be trusted by myself? Well, that should be a pleasant visit.” “Why are you so hateful about her? Because she still loves you?” “You’re not becoming one of those truth-tellers, I hope. I only meant that New York should be a welcome change from this outpost. Martine certainly found it so.” “She was a bitch,” Rebecca said. “I was the bitch,” he said. “As they say. I’m afraid I must have liked it.” He took a sip of his mineral water. “Well, Daddy, look—you wouldn’t consider coming with me? Mom says Joe Family might be there.” This was her new name for Nathan. “Thank you, no. I wouldn’t have thought that you, of all people, would still entertain that fantasy.” She stared at him, the glass halfway to her mouth, then dropped her eyes. “I don’t know why I keep being surprised.” “I’m sorry. As you say, I’m not a delicate soul.” She drained her glass and held it out to be filled. “Daddy, are you not even curious? About me and Giancarlo?” “I was waiting for you to tell me.” He lifted the half bottle, dripping, out of the—“humidor” was not the word—wiped it with the towel, and poured for her. “I had assumed you didn’t want to talk about it.” “Fine, you’re right,” she said. “I don’t want to talk about it.” She took a sip. He noticed fine traceries at the corners of her eyes, and a single hard line slicing from each side of her nose to the corner of the mouth. These lines seemed to have been drawn onto the face of the true Rebecca, who had always looked young for her age—disturbingly so. “I think I’m going to apply to law school,” she said. “Given all that’s going on here.” “Bind up the nation’s wounds?” he said. “You can’t just throw up your hands.” “Spoken like a woman who’s spent the last ten years in sunny Italy.” “Yeah. Well. That’s over.” She picked up her glass again. “I was hoping maybe I could stay with you. While I get things figured out?” “And, meanwhile, keep an eye on me.” “Do you think you need that?” “What a question,” he said. “What am I supposed to say?” “You could have said no. Should we talk about what you’re going to do?” “As a matter of fact,” he said, “I’ve decided to go work in the inner city.” He had been thinking about how to phrase this joke to make the meaning more precisely double, but it would do. “Daddy, I think that would be wonderful for you. And the people you could help.” “The people I could help.” He clinked his glass against hers. “Here’s to them.” Without telling Rebecca, he wrote out a new will and faxed it to his lawyer. It left her the house and five acres, which included the barn and the tennis court; the other forty acres, with the pond and the cabin, went to Nathan; the money, fifty-fifty, to Rebecca and her mother, since Nathan had done so well. The Volvo should rightly have gone to Martine: he’d heard from Jack Stephenson that she had found only an adjunct position at Fordham, and she could have sold the car for the money, or kept it for the irony. But, since she had true love, there was no need for either. He directed that the car be sold, and the proceeds donated to Doctors Without Borders. He left the Jeep to Karen Friedman. Rebecca was staying at the house with him for a few more days before going to New York. Through Jack, she had arranged for three L.P.N.s to come out in eight-hour shifts while she was gone. He was back in the king-size sleigh bed he had shared with Martine, which marked the place where he had shared the old double bed with Andrea. Each night after dinner, he and Karen—no, he and Rebecca—would play three games of Scrabble in front of the fireplace; they’d become evenly matched. Then, after trying to put himself under by puzzling out Shakespeare, he would swallow the one sleeping aid Rebecca allowed him: L-tryptophan, from the health-food store. The liquor cabinet, of course, she had emptied. One morning, when she went out to get the mail, he telephoned Rite Aid, but he was informed that his prescriptions could no longer be honored. It snowed the night before he was to drive her to the train; they were calling for a foot or more. That afternoon he had gone out to the barn and uncovered the Volvo, the blue tarp spattered with the droppings of swallows. It had started right up, like the good Swedish car it was, and he had moved it out into the driveway to make loading her bags easier in the morning. He had thought of simply driving off, but to where, and what then? That night he lay there trying to decode the scene in “The Winter’s Tale” where the wife is pretending to be a statue—the silliest part of a particularly silly play—then gave up, got out of bed, and went to the window. Snowflakes pouring straight down: he tried to follow this one, this one, this one, this one. White knife-edged crests had built up on the branches of the maple tree. He heard a roar that shook the house. It was only a section of accumulated snow sliding down the slate roof. But for an instant he had thought: So this is how it ends. At some point, he heard the snowplow come through and saw its yellow blinkers light up the snowflakes. He awoke to the sandy scraping of a shovel down below: Rebecca clearing the walk. Daylight, and snow still falling. He smelled coffee. He had himself dressed when she clumped in, snow sticking to her green rubber boots. “I got a path dug out to the car,” she said. “But shouldn’t we take the Jeep? I don’t know if the trains are even going to be running.” “I thought we ought to go in style,” he said. The snow was knee-high on either side of the path she’d made; he saw that she’d cut the sides down at an angle, the way he used to do it. When she was a child, still living here. He went out and started the Volvo, put the heat on full blast, then came back inside. “Be warm in ten minutes,” he said. She poured him a cup of coffee and turned on the radio. “Let’s see if we can get the weather.” “It’ll be fine.” He tapped his forehead with his index finger. “My own secret station.” “That’s half your problem right there,” she said. “I’d call that a conservative estimate,” he said. They slung her bags into the trunk. A couple more inches had fallen since the plow had come through, and the smooth white of the road showed only a single pair of tire tracks. At the stop sign, the tracks went straight ahead; Breakneck Hill Road was a virgin slope. He put on his turn signal. Rebecca looked over at him. “We’re not going this way?” “Save time,” he said. “We have lots of time,” she said. “Do you want to get us killed?” He jammed the shift lever into Park. “Would you care to drive?” “I’d care to live, Daddy. Do you even have snow tires?” “I’ve been a doctor for forty years,” he said. “Do you think I don’t know what I’m doing?” He closed his eyes and listened to the tick tick tick tick. “I’m sorry, Bunky.” He turned off his signal. “We’ll take the long way. It won’t make that much difference.” He pulled the lever back into Drive and started the car forward; it fishtailed, then righted itself. Snow blew straight across the windshield, from left to right. “I must be hearing things,” she said. “You haven’t called me that since—you know.” He glanced over to see if she was crying. No. “Is it all right if I call you that?” “As you say. It won’t make that much difference.” She reached over and patted his leg. “Sorry, Daddy. I’m just . . . Do you promise to take care of yourself while I’m gone?” “Aren’t we leaving that to the professionals?” “I told you, right? Mrs. What’s-her-name is going to meet us at the station and she’ll follow you back to the house. Mrs. Biggs.” “Now there’s something to look forward to.” He had already taken his vow of silence: not a word to any of them. If they reported him, they reported him. He was a strange old man. “You’ve always had women looking after you. So they’re being paid.” “How it generally ends up,” he said. “And you’re going to look into that volunteer work?” “A Doctor Without Borders,” he said. “Heal the sick, raise the dead.” “Always so modest.” “Yes, well,” he said, “I can tell you a story about that.” The wind had shifted now and was blowing snow straight at the windshield, like an attack from the stars. “This was back when I started out in practice,” he said. “I had night duty in the emergency room and they brought in—” “Daddy,” she said, “I’ve heard this how many times?” “Then I guess there’s no need to drag it out,” he said. An attack of the stars: he must not get focussed on this. “But you see where I’m going.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Men of Ireland	The man came jauntily, the first of the foot passengers. Involuntarily he sniffed the air. My God! he said, not saying it aloud. My God, you can smell it, all right. He hadn’t been in Ireland for twenty-three years. He went more cautiously when he reached the edge of the dock, being the first, not knowing where to go. “On there,” an official looking after things said, gesturing over his shoulder with a raised thumb. “O.K.,” the man said. “O.K.” He went in this direction. The dock was different, not as he remembered it, and he wondered where the train came in. Not that he intended to take it, but it would give him his bearings. He could have asked the passengers who had come off the boat behind him but he was shy about that. He went more slowly and they began to pass him, some of them going in the same direction. Then he saw the train coming in. Dusty, it looked; beaten up a bit, but as much of it as he could see was free from graffiti. He was a shabbily dressed man, everything he wore having been abandoned by someone else. He had acquired the garments over a period, knowing he intended to make this journey—the trousers of what had been a suit, brown pin-striped, worn shiny in the seat and at the knees, a jacket that had been navy blue and was nondescript now, the khaki shirt he wore an item once of military attire. His shoes were good, in one of his pockets was an Old Carthusian tie, although he had not himself attended Charterhouse. His name was Donal Prunty. Once big, heavily made, he seemed much less so now, the features of a face that had been florid at that time pinched within the sag of flesh. His dark hair was roughly cut. He was fifty-two years old. The cars were coming off the boat now, beginning to wind their way around the new concrete buildings before passing through one of them—or so it seemed from where he stood. The road they were making for was what he wanted and he walked in that direction. Going over, the livestock lorry he’d been given a lift in had brought him nearly to the boat itself. Twenty-three years, he thought again. You’d never believe it. He’d been on the road for seven days, across the breadth of England, through Wales. The clothes had held up well; he’d kept himself shaven as best he could, the blades saved up from what they allowed you in the hostels. You could use a blade thirty or so times if you wanted to, until it got jagged. You’d have to watch whatever you’d acquired for the feet, most of all you had to keep an eye on that department. His shoes were the pair he’d taken off the drunk who’d been lying on the street behind the Cavendish Hotel. Everything else you could take was gone from him—wallet, watch, studs and cufflinks, any loose change, a fountain pen if there’d been one, car keys in case the car would be around with things left in it. The tie had been taken off but thrown back and he had acquired it after he’d unlaced the shoes. When he reached the road to Wexford the cars were on it already. Every minute or so, another one would go past, and the lorries were there, in more of a hurry. But neither car nor lorry stopped for him, and he walked a mile and then the greater part of another. Fewer cars passed him then, more travelling in the other direction, to catch the same boat going back to Fishguard. He caught up with a van parked in a lay-by, the driver eating crisps, a can of Pepsi-Cola on the dashboard in front of him, the window beside him wound down. “Would you have a lift?” he asked him. “Where’re you heading?” “Mullinavat, on the Waterford road.” “I’m taking a rest.” “I’m not in a hurry. God knows, I’m not.” “I’d leave you to New Ross. Wait there till I’ll have finished the grub.” “D’you know beyond Mullinavat, over the Galloping Pass? A village by the name of Gleban?” “I never heard of that.” “There’s a big white church out the road, nothing only petrol and a half-and-half in Gleban. A priests’ seminary a half mile the other way.” “I don’t know that place at all.” “I used be there one time. I don’t know would it be bigger now.” “It would surely. Isn’t everywhere these times? Get in and we’ll make it to Ross.” Prunty considered if he’d ask the van driver for money. He could leave it until they were getting near Ross in case the van would be pulled up as soon as money was mentioned and he’d be told to get out. Or maybe it’d be better if he’d leave it until the van was drawn up at the turn to Mullinavat, where there’d be the parting of the ways. He remembered Ross, he remembered where the Mullinavat road was. What harm could it do, when he was as far as he could be taken, that he’d ask for the price of a slice of bread, the way any traveller would? Prunty thought about that while the van driver told him his mother was in care in Tagoat. He went to Tagoat on a Sunday, he said, and Prunty knew what the day was then, not that it made a difference. In a city you’d always know that one day of the week when it came round, but travelling you wouldn’t be bothered cluttering yourself with that type of thing. “She’s with a woman who’s on the level with her,” the van driver said. “Not a home, nothing like that. I wouldn’t touch a home.” Prunty agreed that he was right. She’d been where she was a twelvemonth, the van driver said, undisturbed in a room, every meal cooked while she’d wait for it. He wagged his head in wonder at these conditions. “The Queen of Sheba,” he said. Prunty’s own mother was dead. She’d died eighteen months before he’d gone into exile, a day he hated remembering. Word came in at Cahill’s, 1979, a wet winter day, February, he thought it was. “You’ve only the one mother,” Prunty said. “I’m over for the same.” He made the connection in the hope that such shared ground would assist in the matter of touching the van driver for a few coins. “In England, are you?” the van driver inquired. “Oh, I am. A long time there.” “I was never there yet.” “I’m after coming off the ferry.” “You’re travelling light.” “I have other stuff at Gleban.” “Is your mother in a home there?” “I wouldn’t touch one, like yourself. She’s eighty-three years of age, and still abiding in the same house eight children was born in. Not a speck of dust in it, not an egg fried you wouldn’t offer up thanks for, two kinds of soda bread made every day.” The van driver said he got the picture. They passed the turn to Adamstown, the evening still fine, which Prunty was glad about. He had two children, the van driver said, who’d be able to tell him if Kilkenny won. Going down to Tagoat on a Sunday was the way of it when old age would be in charge, he said; you made the sacrifice. He crossed himself when they passed a church, and Prunty said to himself he’d nearly forgotten that. “You’d go through Wexford itself in the old days,” he said. “You would, all right.” “The country’s doing well.” “The Europeans give us the roads. Ah, but sure she’s doing well all the same.” “Were you always in Ross?” “Oh, I was.” “I cleared off when I had to. A while ago.” “A lot went then.” The van drew in when the conversation had been exhausted and there’d been silence for a few miles. They were in a quiet street, deserted on a Sunday evening. “Well, there you go.” “You couldn’t see your way to a few bob?” The van driver leaned across to release the catch of the door. He pushed the door open. “Maybe a fifty if you’d have it handy,” Prunty suggested, and the van driver said he never carried money with him in the van and Prunty knew it wasn’t true. Reluctant to get out, he said, “Any loose change at all.” “I have to be getting on now. Take that left by the lamppost with the bin on it. D’you see it? Take it and keep going.” Prunty got out. He stood back while the door was banged shut from the inside. They said it because the mention of money made them think of being robbed. Even a young fellow like that, strong as a horse. Hold on to what you’d have: they were all like that. He watched the van driving away, the orange direction light flicking on and off, the turn made to the right. He set off in the direction he’d been given and no car passed him until he left the town behind. None stopped for him then, the evening sun dazzling him on the open road. That was the first time he had begged in Ireland, he said to himself, and the thought stayed with him for a few miles, until he lay down at the edge of a field. The night would be fine except for the bit of dew that might come later on. It wasn’t difficult to tell. The old man was asleep, head slumped into his chest, its white hair mussed, one arm hanging loose. The doorbell hadn’t roused him, and Miss Brehany’s decision was that she had no option but to wake him since she had knocked twice and still he hadn’t heard. “Father Meade,” she called softly, while the man who had come waited in the hall. She should have sent him away; she should have said come some time Father Meade would know to expect him. After his lunch when the day was warm he usually dropped off. “Miss Brehany,” he said, sitting up. She described the man who had come to the door. She said she had asked for a name but that her inquiry had been passed by as if it hadn’t been heard. When she’d asked again she hadn’t understood the response. She watched the priest pushing himself to his feet, the palms of his hands pressed hard on the surface of his desk. “He’s wearing a collar and tie,” she said. “Would that be Johnny Healy?” “It isn’t, Father. It’s a younger man than Johnny Healy.” “Bring him in, Rose, bring him in. And bring me in a glass of water, would you?” “I would of course.” Father Meade didn’t recognize the man who was brought to him, although he had known him once. He wasn’t of the parish, he said to himself, unless he’d come into it in recent years. But his housekeeper was right about the collar and tie, an addition to a man’s attire that in Father Meade’s long experience of such matters placed a man. The rest of his clothing, Rose Brehany might have added, wasn’t up to much. “Would you remember me, Father? Would you remember Donal Prunty?” Miss Brehany came in with the water and heard that asked and observed Father Meade’s slow nod, after a pause. She was thanked for the glass of water. “Are you Donal Prunty?” Father Meade asked. “I served at the Mass for you, Father.” “You did, Donal, you did.” “It wasn’t yourself who buried my mother.” “Father Loughlin if it wasn’t myself. You went away, Donal.” “I did, all right. I was never back till now.” He was begging. Father Meade knew, you always could; it was one of the senses that developed in a priest. Not that a lot came begging in a scattered parish, not like you’d get in the towns. “Will we take a stroll in the garden, Donal?” “Whatever would be right for you, Father. Whatever.” Father Meade unlatched the French doors and went ahead of his visitor. “I’m fond of the garden,” he said, not turning his head. “I’m on the streets, Father.” “In Dublin, is it?” “I went over to England, Father.” “I think I maybe heard.” “What work was there here, all the same?” “Oh, I know, I know. Nineteen . . . what would it have been?” “Nineteen eighty-one I went across.” “You had no luck there?” “I never had luck, Father.” The old man walked slowly, the arthritis he was afflicted with in the small bones of both his feet a nuisance today. The house in which he had lived since he’d left the presbytery was modest, but the garden was large, looked after by a man the parish paid for. House and garden were parish property, kept for purposes such as this, where old priests—more than one at the same time if that happened to be how things were—would have a home. Father Meade was fortunate in having it to himself, Miss Brehany coming every day. “Isn’t it grand, that creeper?” He gestured across a strip of recently cut grass at Virginia creeper turning red on a high stone wall with broken glass in the cement at the top. Prunty had got into trouble. The recollection was vague at first, before more of it came back: something about stealing from farms at harvest time or the potato planting, when everyone would be in the fields. Always the same, except the time he was caught with the cancer charity box. As soon as his mother was buried he went off, and was in trouble again before he left the district a year or so later. “The Michaelmas daisy is a flower that’s a favorite of mine.” Father Meade gestured again. “The way it cheers up the autumn.” “I know what you mean, all right, Father.” They walked in silence for a few minutes. Then Father Meade asked, “Are you back home to stop, Donal?” “I don’t know am I. Is there much doing in Gleban?” “Ah, there is, there is. Well, look at it now, compared with when you took off. Sure, it’s a metropolis nearly.” Father Meade laughed, then more seriously added, “We’ve the John Deere agency, and the estate on the Mullinavat road and another beyond the church. We have the Super Valu and the Hardware Co-Op and the bank suboffice two days in the week. We have Dolan’s garage and Linehan’s drapery and general goods, and changes made in Steacy’s. You’d go to Mullinavat for a doctor in the old days, even if you’d find one there. We have a young fellow coming out to us on a Tuesday for the last year and longer.” A couple of steps, contending with the slope of the garden, broke the path they were on. The chair on which Father Meade had earlier rested, catching the morning sun, was still there, on a lawn more spacious than the strip of grass by the wall with the Virginia creeper. “Still and all, it’s a good thing to come back to a place when you were born in it. I remember your mother.” “I’m wondering could you spare me something, Father.” Father Meade turned and began the walk back to the house. He nodded an indication that he had heard and noted the request, the impression given to Prunty that he was considering it. But in the room where he had earlier fallen asleep he said there was employment to be had in Gleban and its neighborhood. “When you’ll go down past Steacy’s bar go in to Kingston’s yard and tell Mr. Kingston I sent you. If Mr. Kingston hasn’t something himself he’ll put you right for somewhere else.” “What’s Kingston’s yard?” “It’s where they bottle the water from the springs up at the Pass.” “It wasn’t work I came for, Father.” Prunty sat down. He took out a packet of cigarettes, and then stood up again to offer it to the priest. Father Meade was standing by the French doors. He came farther into the room and stood behind his desk, not wanting to sit down himself because it might be taken as an encouragement by his visitor to prolong his stay. He waved the cigarettes away. “I wouldn’t want to say it,” Prunty said. He was experiencing difficulty with his cigarette, failing to light it although he struck two matches, and Father Meade wondered if there was something the matter with his hands the way he couldn’t keep them steady. But Prunty said the matches were damp. You spent a night sleeping out and you got damp all over even though it didn’t rain on you. “What is it you don’t want to say, Mr. Prunty?” Prunty laughed. His teeth were discolored, almost black. “Why’re you calling me Mr. Prunty, Father?” The priest managed a laugh, too. Put it down to age, he said: he sometimes forgot a name and then it would come back. “Donal it is,” Prunty said. “Of course it is. What’s it you want to say, Donal?” A match flared, and at once there was a smell of tobacco smoke in a room where no one smoked anymore. “Things happened the time I was a server, Father.” “It was a little later on you went astray, Donal.” “Have you a drink, Father? Would you offer me a drink?” “We’ll get Rose to bring us in a cup of tea.” Prunty shook his head, a slight motion, hardly a movement at all. “I don’t keep strong drink,” Father Meade said. “I don’t take it myself.” “You used give me a drink.” “Ah no, no. What’s it you want, Donal?” “I’d estimate it was money, Father. If there’s a man left anywhere would see me right it’s the Father. I used say that. We’d be down under the arches and you could hear the rain falling on the river. We’d have the brazier going until they’d come and quench it. All Ireland’d be there, Toomey’d say. Men from all over, and Nellie Bonzer, too, and Colleen from Tuam. The methylated doing the rounds and your fingers would be shivering and you opening up the butts, and you’d hear the old stories then. Many’s the time I’d tell them how you’d hold your hand up when you were above in the pulpit. ‘Don’t go till I’ll give it to you in Irish,’ you’d say, and you’d begin again and the women would sit there obedient, not understanding a word but it wouldn’t matter because they’d have heard it already in the foreign tongue. Wasn’t there many a priest called it the foreign tongue, Father?” “I’m sorry you’ve fallen on hard times, Donal.” “Eulala came over with a priest’s infant inside her.” “Donal—” “Eulala has a leg taken off of her. She has the crutches the entire time, seventy-one years of age. It was long ago she left Ireland behind her.” “Donal—” “Don’t mind me saying that about a priest.” “It’s a bad thing to say, Donal.” “You used give me a drink. D’you remember that though? We’d sit down in the vestry when they’d all be gone. You’d look out the door to see was it all right and you’d close it and come over to me. ‘Isn’t it your birthday?’ you’d say and it wouldn’t be at all. ‘Will we open the old bottle?’ you’d say. The time it was holy wine, you sat down beside me and said it wasn’t holy yet. ‘No harm,’ you said.” Father Meade shook his head. He blinked, and frowned, and for a moment Miss Brehany seemed to be saying there was a man at the front door, her voice coming to him while he was still asleep. But he wasn’t asleep, although he wanted to be. “Many’s the time there’d be talk about the priests,” Prunty said. “ ‘The hidden Ireland’ is Toomey’s word for the way it was in the old days. All that, Father. ‘Close your eyes,’ you used say in the vestry. ‘Close your eyes, boy. Make your confession to me after.’ ” There was a silence in the room. Then Father Meade asked why he was being told lies, since he of all people would know they were lies. “I think you should go away now,” he said. “When I told my mother she said she’d have a whip taken to me.” “You told your mother nothing. There was nothing to tell anyone.” “Breda Flynn’s who Eulala was, only a Romanian man called her that and she took it on. Limerick she came from. She was going with the Romanian. Toomey’s a Carlow man.” “What you’re implying is sickening and terrible and disgraceful. I’m telling you to go now.” Father Meade knew he said that, but hardly heard because he was wondering if he was being confused with another priest; a brain addled by recourse to methylated spirits would naturally be blurred by now. But the priests of the parish, going back for longer than the span of Prunty’s lifetime, had been well known to Father Meade. Not one of them could he consider, even for a moment, in the role Prunty was hinting at. Not a word of what was coming out of this demented imagination had ever been heard in the parish, no finger ever pointed in the direction of any priest. He’d have known if there’d been abuse or anything like it; he’d have been told—of that Father Meade was certain, as sure of it as he was of his faith. “I have no money for you, Prunty.” “Long ago I’d see the young priests from the seminary. Maybe there’d be three of them walking together, out on the road to the Pass. They’d always be talking and I’d think to myself maybe I’d enter the seminary myself. But then again you’d be cooped up. Would I come back tomorrow morning after you’d have a chance to get hold of a few shillings?” “I have no money for you,” Father Meade said again. “There’s talk no man would want to put about. You’d forget things, Father. Long ago things would happen and you’d forget them. Sure, no one’s blaming you for that. Only one night I said to myself, ‘I’ll go back to Gleban.’ ” “Do you know you’re telling lies, Prunty? Are you aware of it? Evil’s never forgotten, Prunty—of all people, a priest knows that. Little things fall away from an old man’s mind, but what you’re trying to put into it would never have left it.” “No harm’s meant, Father.” “Tell your tale in Steacy’s bar, Prunty, and maybe you’ll be believed.” Father Meade stood up and took what coins there were from his trouser pockets and made a handful of them on the desk. “Make your confession, Prunty. Do that at least.” Prunty stared at the money, counting it with his eyes. Then he scooped it up. “If we had a few notes to go with it,” he said, “we’d have the sum done right.” He spoke slowly, as if unhurried enunciation was easier for the elderly. It was all the talk, he said, the big money there’d be. No way you could miss the talk, no way it wouldn’t affect you. He knew he’d get more. Whatever was in the house he’d go away with, and he watched while a drawer was unlocked and opened, while money was taken from a cardboard box. None was left behind. “Thanks, Father,” he said before he went. Father Meade opened the French doors in the hope that the cigarette smoke would blow away. He’d been a smoker himself, a thirty-a-day man, but that was long ago. “I’m off now, Father,” Miss Brehany said, coming in to say it, before she went home. She had cut cold meat for him, she said. She’d put the tea things out for him, beside the kettle. “Thanks, Rose. Thanks.” She said goodbye and he put the chain on the hall door. In the garden he pulled the chair he’d been sitting on earlier into the last of the sun and felt it warm on his face. He didn’t blame himself for being angry, for becoming upset because he’d been repelled by what was said to him. He didn’t blame Donal Prunty because you couldn’t blame a hopeless case. In a long life a priest had many visits, heard voices that ages ago he’d forgotten, failed to recognize faces that had been as familiar as his own. “See can you reach him, Father,” Donal Prunty’s mother had pleaded when her son was still a child, and he had tried to. But Prunty had lied to him then, too, promising without meaning it that he’d reform himself. “Ah sure, I needed a bit of money,” he said hardly a week later when he was caught with the cancer box broken open. Was it because he clearly still needed it, Father Meade wondered, that he’d let him go away with every penny in the house? Was it because you couldn’t but pity him? Or was there a desperation in the giving, as if it had been prompted by his own failure when he’d been asked, in greater desperation, to reach a boy who didn’t know right from wrong? While he rested in the sun, Father Meade was aware of a temptation to let his reflections settle for one of these conclusions. But he knew, even without further thought, that there was as little truth in them as there was in the crude pretenses of his visitor. There’d been no generous intent in the giving of the money, no honorable guilt had inspired the gesture, no charitable motive. He had paid for silence. Guiltless, he was guilty, his brave defiance as much of a subterfuge as any of his visitor’s. He might have belittled the petty offense that had occurred, so slight it was when you put it beside the betrayal of a Church and the shaming of Ireland’s priesthood and the priesthood everywhere. He might have managed to say something decent to a Gleban man who was down and out in case it would bring consolation to the man, in case it would calm his conscience if maybe one day his conscience would nag. Instead, he had been fearful, diminished by the sins that so deeply stained his cloth, distrustful of his people. Father Meade remained in his garden until the shadows that had lengthened on his grass and his flower beds were no longer there. The air turned cold. But he sat a little longer before he went back to the house to seek redemption and to pray for Donal Prunty. Prunty walked through the town Gleban had become since he had lived in it. He didn’t go to the church to make his confession, as he’d been advised. He didn’t go into Steacy’s bar, but passed both by, finding the way he had come in the early morning. He experienced no emotion, nor did it matter how the money had become his, only that it had. A single faint thought was that the town he left behind was again the place of his disgrace. He didn’t care. He hadn’t liked being in the town, he hadn’t liked asking where the priest lived, nor going there. He hadn’t liked walking in the garden or making his demand, or even knowing that he would receive what he had come for in spite of twice being told he wouldn’t. He would drink a bit of the money away tonight and reach the ferry tomorrow. He wouldn’t hurry after that. Whatever pace he went at, the streets where he belonged would still be there. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Della	Della thought again about the stream, which was black and broad, and about the naked boys who played on its sloping banks, all very white. One of them reached toward the water with a stick, but the stick did not touch the water. She could see him leaning sideways off the steep bank. There was a scrubby tree leaning in from the other bank, and the leaves were small and grayish against the black water. Della had no idea where the river was, or who the boy was, or whether he was about to fall into the water. She did not know if this was something that she had seen once, or whether she would see it sometime in the future. It was a dream, or something off the telly. She thought that it had something to do with the River Blackwater, but it was probably not even Irish. In Ireland, boys didn’t swim in the nip. Della knew there was nothing important in the river, a clump of twigs and leaves, or an oddly shaped stick. The boy was reaching out just for the pleasure of it—to see if he could. She thought it might be in Russia, the river was so black, and the trees were birch trees. Or maybe the boys’ bodies just reminded her of birch trees, which always looked so fresh and hopeful. But the boys looked sad, too, she thought, like boys in a picture that was taken before a great war. The man next door was going blind, but he didn’t seem to notice it. Della felt obliged to point it out to him, even though it was none of her business and she didn’t really know what to say. They had lived side by side for more than fifty years, but they never got on much. Della had liked his wife, but she was dead a long time now, and he had never been chatty. Besides, his manner with children had stung Della when she was rearing her own. Her five and his two, all gone. At least hers came back now and again—his didn’t darken the door—but they were scattered, and Della, left to herself for long stretches of time, was prone to forgetfulness and thoughts about birch trees and naked boys she had never known. Sometimes, from next door came a scratching or tapping, which made her think, What could he be up to in there? Other times, so much silence that she wrote it down: “16th October—no noise,” trying to keep track of things, in case the man died. Despite the fact that she couldn’t remember what year it was. She pushed the pieces of paper behind the mantelpiece clock. The noises happened behind this wall, in his kitchen, which was the mirror to hers. Domestic scrapings, and the occasional bump or clatter. You might think, as she sometimes did, that he was doing something odd in there, but who would have guessed the real oddness of it—that he could not see what he was doing at all. It took her months to realize it. She met him outside the local newsagent’s—it might have been a day in February—and he neglected to salute her. And this put her in mind of the last time he had passed, without a nod or a sign. So either he was fighting with her or there was something else astray. Still, he had always been such an irritating person that the weather turned to spring before her conscience finally got to her and she said, “Hello, Tom,” in a voice so loud it might have sounded sarcastic. He startled and looked around. “Della?” he said, and she would have thought then that the eyes were going, if it weren’t for the daily paper tucked under his arm. Also, she knew by the way he said her name that he was more intimate with her than she liked, on the other side of their brick wall. Then, one day in April, she saw the newspapers in a clump for the bin men, and a curious sense about them woke her up in the middle of the night with the fact that they had not been opened, let alone read, and the man next door, whether he knew it or not, was blind. There was nothing worse than knowing this. If it was just his mind that was going, then at least he would forget, from one minute to the next, how miserable he was. But the noises behind the wall were not the vague scrabblings of old age. He was looking for something. He was getting it wrong, over and over again. She thought of him in there, in the gathering filth, and she hadn’t even a phone number to ring. And even if she had—if she looked one of the children up in the book—what would she say? They would be in their fifties by now, Colm and Maureen, with families of their own. They would be older than her doctor, older than most people. Imagine asking them to remember their own father—the shame of it. Imagine being turned down. She looked in the book anyway and found the son’s name, Colm Delaney. Della had a vision of him at the age of five—such a charmer, and bold as brass. Though she had felt, even then, that the brass would win out in the end and the charm sour into his father’s talent for passing remarks. She did not lift the phone. He was a most provoking man, Mr. Blink, Mr. Blunderbuss, the soft white stick that lived next door. One of the first things he said to her—she was out walking her new baby, they couldn’t have been three weeks in the place. It was the summer of 1950, and there she was with her beautiful first son, pushing him in front of her for all to admire, and he looked into the pram and said, “He’s small for an Aberdeen Angus.” From which she was to take all sorts of implications. Poor Della, the innocent young wife, with a nine-pound baby coming out of her—the fright of it at the time and the whole world turning inside out. He’s small for an Aberdeen Angus. A tone he had that walked into your head and made itself right at home. Laughing at the wreck of her private parts, somehow, or at the size of her husband’s—her husband was off working in Scotland at the time—laughing at her foolish pride in the baby and, worse than all this, obliging her to laugh, too. She would have forgotten it, if it weren’t so much the nature of the man. “You’re very dressed up,” he might say, meeting her in the kitchen over a cup of tea with his wife. Like she was getting above herself. Or maybe his wife was letting herself go. Whatever he meant, he managed to make everyone unhappy, in a radius. “Oh, you’d know all about that,” he’d say, over something innocuous like buying a pork chop. “About what? What?” Sometimes she wanted to remind him that he did not actually know her. That anyone could have bought the house next door. Anyone at all could be playing with their baby in the little front garden as he walked by and said, “How’s the brat?” over the wall. It was midsummer by now, and Della was awake at four and asleep again at three in the afternoon, and it was very aggravating to be so out of step with the world, snoring through the Lotto results and waking with the worst kind of film spilling, unheeded, into the room. She would switch the telly off, and in the afterimage came the picture of the boys playing on the riverbank. She would try to hold that, and fix the place in her mind. The white forks of their legs; the ease and grace of them as they stood and watched the boy with a stick leaning out over the water. The flatness of the river below. Della was expecting to die any moment. But it didn’t seem to be happening, somehow—river or no river. Still, this was another reason that she put off doing something about the man next door, feeling, in a childish sort of way, that no one would expect her to help him if she was dead: no one would blame her if she was slumped in a chair with her mouth open catching flies while the telly begged for someone to turn it off, night after night. But she didn’t die. She didn’t even feel dizzy when she stood up out of her chair. All that came to her was the alien smell and the drifting nights of old age, while darkness gathered next door and the scratching and tapping went on. Getting under the skin of his own house: the world’s most irritating man. “Where are you off to?” he’d said to her once. “In your good shoes.” Maybe, she thought all these decades later, he had been talking about sex. And this was what got to her. The nerve of him—thinking she might be interested, horrible person that he was, the kind of man who’d be sarcastic to a dog. But she had left herself open to it: by being pregnant, maybe, by pushing prams, by whatever passed between herself and her husband in the dark. So it was just as much as she deserved (her whimpering, maybe, coming through the wall)—he could say what he liked about her shoes, or her pork chops, or the vegetables she bought from the vegetable man. It was enough to drive you demented. She began to feel thought about, and watched. She did not like passing his windows anymore. She wouldn’t have kept up the connection except that they were neighbors and she felt sorry for his wife, Noreen, who was a terrific person, especially when Della was off in the maternity ward. Noreen fed the abandoned children and doted on the new babies, each of them as they came home—this woman, who was sneered at day and night by a husband who only ever gave her two. Though he was mad about her in his way. Couldn’t move without her, somehow. And there was a whole year he sat in their front room and nothing was said—about his job, or what was happening, or what was wrong with him, and why was he sitting in the dark. After which time his comments never seemed to hit home. They were getting a bit old for all that anyway: Della, bagged out by five pregnancies, looking in the mirror and seeing her mother looking back. Still, she had felt, in those years, uncommonly strong, with all her children growing around her. Until the day her little daughter, Margaret, came in crying because Mr. Delaney said that her chest was getting fat. Such a peculiar and wrong thing for a man to say, and the whole street going, “Isn’t he a ticket, ha-ha-ha.” She’d thought it was wrong at the time and she thought so now and, though her own husband said she was silly, hysterical, call it what you like, Della, burning with shame and sorrow for her daughter’s poor breasts, did not address a word to Tom Delaney, or laugh at his jokes, or stop in the street, from that day out. She did not fight him, she just failed to respond, and his wife she spoke to less and less and then not at all. And this was a great loss to her: his wife, Noreen, who was always such a terrific person—it cut a small notch out of her. By the time she died, Noreen had no friends left, of course, and that, too, may have been part of his plan—the spoiler. Della went to the poor woman’s funeral and wondered if things could have been otherwise and realized that they could not. He must be covered in bruises, she thought one day, to the sound of a dish hitting his kitchen floor: a crash followed by three more, so regular they may have been deliberate—and how was he going to clear that up? Coming down in the morning with his feet bare. She picked her feet up in sympathy, quickly. One. Two. It was unbearable. Della went upstairs and cleaned the mirror of the bathroom cabinet, and looked at the picture of herself in there: an old woman she didn’t know. Nothing to do with the young woman pushing a pram, or the middle-aged woman watching, as he walked behind his wife’s coffin, the face of Tom Delaney made frank and obscene by grief. It was indecent, she thought at the time, to go to a funeral with no forgiveness in your heart. There was no luck to it. Was that what had gone wrong? Della tried to see herself in the bathroom mirror, but she saw, instead, Any Old Woman: someone whose kindness did not matter. She took the soap dish and banged on the pipe that led down from the cistern to the back of the toilet: a thin, unsatisfying sound, of plastic against plastic. She cast about, found the Olbas Oil in its little thick bottle, and reached for the ceramic of the cistern itself. Then she tapped three times. It came that evening—mortifying: One, Two, Three. He was knocking on the spot directly behind the mantelpiece clock. Della picked up the poker and, with a dangerous surge in her thin old heart, tapped back, twice. The silence that followed reminded her of leaning in for a kiss, or deciding to lean in, and when the returning knock came she was off at the sink, making a cup of tea. Enough was enough. She would have to buy a packet of biscuits tomorrow and, pretending that nothing had ever happened, ring the bell next door. The boys playing by the river did not have private parts, she realized, when she woke at dawn, and found herself still in the old chair downstairs. They were blurred at the crotch, as angels might be blurred. It was not that their penises did not exist, it was just that she could not picture them—the one that belonged to the boy with a stick, for example, hanging down as he leaned out over the water, straight as a plumb line. She could think of it, but she could not see it, even though she knew it was there. The lump of twigs and leaves, on the other hand, became clearer, cut the water more sharply; it pulled through the flow like an opening zip. Della could not imagine it as anything else: a dead dog, for example, or a living water rat, or the periscope of some unlikely submarine. The twigs and leaves remained just what they were. For which she would always be grateful. Because there was something about the scene that she had not noticed before, a different quality. If she thought very hard about the blackness of the river, and the whiteness of the boys (were there four boys or five?), if she let them be—let the boy with the stick reach for the water, let the watching boys shift from one foot to the other, and the water flow on—if she did not try too hard, she could sense it, there in the picture. Music. Very beautiful. It was hard to say what kind. “Hello, Tom,” she said at the door. “Della?” he said. And she was reminded of his tone outside the newsagent’s, saying her name with a voice that, if you shut your eyes, was the voice of true love. “I have some biscuits,” she said, obliging him to let her in. And when he did—the devastation of the place. “Ah, Tom,” she said. “Would you not think of the Meals on Wheels?” “I did, sure,” he said. “Until they took my radio.” “They did not.” “They were cute enough. They left me this one. Except it’s full of holes.” And he made his way unerringly to the radio on the table, which was an ordinary radio with ordinary holes in it, for the sound to come through. He was starting to imagine things. Della’s own sight wasn’t the best—she had to admit it—but at least she knew what she could and could not see. It was typical of Tom Delaney that he wouldn’t go blind just because his eyesight deserted him. It was typical of him not to let on. Della was so annoyed with him she forgot herself, and spoke as if they had been close, all these years. “I’m too old to be cleaning up after you,” she said. Though there was a solace to it, too, getting a brush and shoving the whole stinking lot out the back door. Much easier, she thought, than cleaning up your own place. Lord Lucan sitting behind her at the table, patting the holes in his radio or reaching his soft fingertips to the plate of biscuits. You couldn’t even begin to tackle the sink. She would have to get Margaret on to it—at least get her to ring the social services. Poor Margaret, with three teen-age children and no husband in Glasnevin, and the breasts that Tom Delaney had mocked in 1964 just a nuisance now, when she ran for the bus. And it seemed so absurd to Della—the thirty years that these things mattered, out of the eighty years that made up a life, eighty or more—that she found herself laughing out loud. “What’s the joke?” he said. “Nothing,” she said. “Don’t let me stop you,” he said. “I won’t, so,” she said. And he turned his face to her; gleeful, as if he could see her quite clearly—a woman in his kitchen who was far from being a virgin, a woman who would, no doubt, find him quite attractive, in the end. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Gorge	My memory is proglottidean, like the tapeworm, but unlike the tapeworm it has no head, it wanders in a maze, and any point may be the beginning or the end of its journey. I must wait for the memories to come of their own accord, following their own logic. That is how it is in the fog. In the sunlight, you see things from a distance and you can change directions purposefully in order to meet up with something particular. In the fog, something or someone approaches you, but you do not know what or who until it is near. But when I think of my life at the Oratorio I can see it all, like a film. No longer proglottidean but, rather, a logical sequence . . . Life changed when I was eleven years old, with my evacuation, in 1943, to Solara. In the city, I had been a melancholy boy who played with his schoolmates for a few hours a day. The rest of the time, I was curled up with a book. In Solara, where I could walk to the town school by myself and romp through the fields and vineyards, I was free, and uncharted territory opened up before me. And I had many friends to roam with. When the Allies were bombing the city, we could see the distant flashes from our windows in Solara, hear the rumbling of something like thunder. The war had made us fatalists, a bombing was like a storm. We kids kept playing calmly through Tuesday evening, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. But were we really calm? Were we not beginning to be marked by anxiety, by the stunned and relieved melancholy that grips anyone who passes alive through a field strewn with corpses? At the Oratorio, where we spent our afternoons after school, we were basically free, rounded up only at six, for catechism and benediction; otherwise we did as we pleased. There was a rudimentary merry-go-round, a few swings, and a small theatre, where I trod the boards for the first time, in “The Little Parisian Girl.” Older boys also came to the Oratorio, and even young men—ancient to us—who played Ping-Pong or cards, though not for money. That good man Don Cognasso, the Oratorio’s director, required of them no profession of faith; it was enough that they came there instead of caravanning toward the city on bicycles, even at the risk of being caught in a bombardment, to attempt the climb up to the Casa Rossa, the bordello famous throughout the province. It was at the Oratorio, after September 8th of 1943, that I first heard about the partisans. For a while, they were just boys who were trying to avoid either the Repubblica Sociale’s new draft or the Nazi roundups, which meant being sent off to work in Germany. Later, people began to call them rebels, because that was what they were called in official communiqués. Only when we found out that ten of them had been executed—including one from Solara—and when we heard via Radio London that special messages were being directed to them, did we begin to call them partisans, or patriots, as they preferred. In Solara, people rooted for the partisans, because the boys had all grown up in those parts, and when they came around, although they all now went by nicknames—Hedgehog, Ferruccio, Lightning, Bluebeard—people still used the names they had known them by before. Many were youths I had seen at the Oratorio, playing hands of scopa in flimsy, threadbare jackets, and now they reappeared wearing brimmed berets, cartridge belts over their shoulders, submachine guns, belts with two grenades attached, or even holstered pistols. They wore red shirts, or jackets from the English Army, or the pants and leggings of the King’s officers. They were beautiful. By 1944, the partisans were appearing in Solara, making quick incursions when the Fascist Black Brigades were elsewhere. Even among the partisans, there were divisions. On occasion, the Badogliani came down, with their blue neckerchiefs; people said that they backed the monarchy and still charged into battle shouting “Savoy!” Other times, it was the Garibaldini, with their red neckerchiefs, singing songs against the King and his right-hand man, Badoglio. The Badogliani were better armed; it was said that the English sent aid to them but not to the other partisans, who were all Communists. The Garibaldini had submachine guns, like the Black Brigades’, captured in occasional clashes or in some surprise attack on an armory, and the Badogliani had the latest-model English Sten guns. One of the Badogliani once let me fire a round. Most of the time they fired to keep in practice, or to impress girls. Gragnola. He frequented the Oratorio. He insisted that his name was pronounced Gràgnola, but everyone called him Gragnòla, a word that brought to mind a hail of gunfire. He replied that he was a peaceful man, and his friends answered back, “Come off it, we know . . .” It was whispered that he had connections to the Garibaldini brigades up in the mountains—he was even a great leader, someone said, and risked more by living in town than he would by hiding out, because if his activities were ever discovered he would be shot at the drop of a hat. Gragnola acted with me in “The Little Parisian Girl,” and after that he took a liking to me. He taught me how to play tressette. He seemed to feel uncomfortable with the other adults at the Oratorio, and he spent long hours chatting with me. Perhaps he knew he was saying things so outrageous that if the others heard him they would take him for the Antichrist, and so he could only trust a kid. He showed me the clandestine broadsheets that were circulating. He would never let me take them because, he said, anyone caught with one would be shot. That was how I learned of the Ardeatine massacre, in Rome. “Our comrades stay up in the hills,” Gragnola used to tell me, “so these things won’t happen anymore. Those Germans, they should all be kaputt!” Gragnola had been a teacher, I did not know of what, in trade schools, going to work every morning on his bicycle and returning home in midafternoon. Then he had to stop: some said because he was devoting himself heart and soul to the partisans; others murmured that it was because he was consumptive. Indeed, Gragnola had the look of a consumptive, an ashen face with two sickly pink cheekbones, hollow cheeks, a persistent cough. He had bad teeth, he limped, he was slightly hunchbacked, with shoulder blades that jutted out, and his jacket collar stood apart from his neck, so that his clothes seemed to hang on him like sacks. Onstage, he always had to play the bad guy or the lame caretaker of a mysterious villa. He was, everyone said, a well of scientific knowledge and had often been invited to teach at the university, but he had refused out of fondness for his students. “Horseshit,” he later told me. “Yambo, I only taught in the poor kids’ school, and only as a substitute, because with this foul war I never even graduated from college. When I was twenty, they sent me off to break the back of Greece, I was wounded in the knee, and never mind that because you can barely tell, but somewhere in that mud I came down with a nasty sickness and I’ve been spitting up blood ever since. If I ever got my hands on Fat Head”—this was his name for Mussolini—“I wouldn’t kill him because unfortunately I’m a coward, but I would kick his ass until it was out of commission for what little time I hope he has left to live, the Judas.” I once asked him why he came to the Oratorio, since everyone said he was an atheist. He told me that it was the only place he could see people. And, besides, he was not an atheist but an anarchist. At that time I did not know what anarchists were, and he explained that they were people who wanted freedom, with no masters, no kings, no state, and no priests. “Above all, no state, not like those Communists in Russia, where the state even tells them when they have to use the crapper.” I asked him why he associated with the Garibaldini, who were Communists, if he was against the Communists. He replied that, No. 1, not all of the Garibaldini were Communists, there were socialists and even anarchists among them, and, No. 2, the enemies at the moment were the Nazi-Fascists, and it was no time for splitting hairs. “First we’ll win together; we’ll settle our differences later.” Then he added that he came to the Oratorio because it was a good place. Priests were like the Garibaldini—they were an evil breed, but there were some respectable men among them. “Especially in these times, when who knows what’s going to happen to these kids, who until last year were being taught that books and muskets make perfect Fascists. At the Oratorio, at least, they don’t let them go to the dogs, and they teach them to be decent, even if they do make too much fuss about jerking off, but that doesn’t matter because you all do it anyway, and at most you confess it later. So I come to the Oratorio and I help Don Cognasso to get the kids to play. When we go to Mass, I sit quietly in the back of the church, because Jesus Christ I respect even if I don’t respect God.” Gragnola and I talked about everything. I would tell him about the books I was reading, and he would discuss them passionately. “Verne,” he would say, “is better than Salgari, because he’s scientific. Cyrus Smith manufacturing nitroglycerin is more real than that Sandokan tearing his chest with his fingernails just because he’s fallen for some bitchy little fifteen-year-old.” Gragnola taught me about Socrates and Giordano Bruno. And Bakunin, about whose work and life I had known very little. He told me about Campanella, Sarpi, and Galileo, who were all imprisoned or tortured by priests for trying to spread scientific principles, and about some who had cut their own throats, like Ardigò, because the bosses and the Vatican were keeping them down. Since I had read the Hegel entry (“Emin. Ger. phil. of the pantheist school”) in the Nuovissimo Melzi, I asked Gragnola about him. “Hegel wasn’t a pantheist, and your Melzi is an ignoramus. Giordano Bruno might have been a pantheist. A pantheist believes that God is everywhere, even in that speck of a fly you see there. You can imagine how satisfying that is—being everywhere is like being nowhere. Well, for Hegel it wasn’t God but the State that had to be everywhere; therefore, he was a Fascist.” “But didn’t he live more than a hundred years ago?” “So? Joan of Arc, also a Fascist of the highest order. Fascists have always existed. Since the age of . . . since the age of God. Take God—a Fascist.” “But aren’t you one of those atheists who say that God doesn’t exist?” “Who said that? Don Cognasso, who can’t even grasp the most trifling thing? I believe that God does, unfortunately, exist. It’s just that he’s a Fascist.” “But why is God a Fascist?” “Listen, you’re too young for me to give you a theology lecture. We’ll start with what you know. Recite the Ten Commandments for me, seeing as the Oratorio makes you memorize them.” I recited them. “Good,” he said. “Now pay attention. Among those Ten Commandments are four, think about it, only four, that promote good things—and even those, well, let’s review them. Don’t kill, don’t steal, don’t bear false witness, and don’t covet your neighbor’s wife. This last one is a commandment for men who know what honor is: on the one hand, don’t cuckold your friends, and, on the other, try to preserve your family, and I can live with that; anarchy wants to get rid of families, too, but you can’t have everything all at once. As for the other three, I agree, but common sense should tell you that much at a bare minimum. And even then you have to weigh them; we all tell lies sometimes, perhaps even for good ends, whereas killing, no, you shouldn’t do that, ever.” “Not even if the King sends you off to war?” “There’s the rub. Priests will tell you that if the King sends you off to war you can—indeed, you should—kill. And that the responsibility lies with the King. That’s how they justify war, which is a nasty brute, especially if Fat Head is the one who sends you off. But notice that the commandments don’t say that it’s O.K. to kill in war. They say don’t kill, period. And then . . .” “Then?” “Let’s look at the other commandments. The first commandment says you shall have no other God before him. That’s how the Lord prevents you from thinking, for instance, about Allah, or Buddha, or maybe even Venus—and, let’s be honest, it wouldn’t have been bad at all to have a piece of tail like that as your goddess. But it also means that you shouldn’t believe in philosophy, for instance, or in science, or get any ideas about man descending from apes. Just Him, that’s it. Now pay attention, because the other commandments are all Fascist, designed to force you to accept society as it is. Remember the one about keeping the Sabbath day holy? What do you think of it?” “Well, basically it says to go to Mass on Sunday—what’s wrong with that?” “That’s what Don Cognasso tells you, and, like all priests, he doesn’t know the first thing about the Bible. Wake up! In a primitive tribe like the one Moses took for a walk, this meant that you had to observe the rites, and the purpose of the rites—from human sacrifices on up to Fat Head’s rallies in Piazza Venezia—is to addle people’s brains! And then? Honor thy father and mother. Honor thy father and mother means respect the ideas of your elders, don’t oppose tradition, don’t presume to change the tribe’s way of life. See? Don’t cut off the King’s head, although, God knows, if we have a head on our own shoulders we should, especially with a king like that dwarf Savoy, who betrayed his army and sent his officers to their death. And now you can see that even ‘Don’t steal’ isn’t quite as innocent a commandment as it seems, because it orders you not to touch private property, which belongs to the person who got rich by stealing from you. If only it ended there. There are three commandments left. ‘Thou shalt not commit adultery.’ The Don Cognassos of the world would have you believe that this commandment means ‘Don’t commit impure acts,’ and its only purpose is to keep you from wagging that thing that hangs between your legs, but to drag in the stone tablets for the occasional wank seems a bit much. What’s a guy like me supposed to do, a failure? That beautiful woman, my mother, didn’t make me beautiful, and I’m a gimp to boot, and I’ve never touched a woman who’s a woman, and they want to deny me even that release? “God could have said, for instance, ‘You can screw, but only to make babies,’ especially since at that time there weren’t enough people in the world. But the Ten Commandments don’t say that. So, on the one hand, you can’t covet your friend’s wife and, on the other, you can’t commit impure acts. When is screwing allowed? I mean, really, you’re trying to make a law that works for the whole world—when the Romans, who weren’t God, made laws it was stuff that still makes sense today—and God tosses down a Decalogue that doesn’t tell you the most important things? “And now we come to the last commandment: ‘Don’t covet other people’s stuff.’ But have you ever asked yourself why this commandment exists, when you’ve already got ‘Don’t steal’? If you covet a bike like the one your friend has, is that a sin? No, not if you don’t steal it from him. Don Cognasso will tell you that this commandment prohibits envy, which is certainly an ugly thing. But there’s bad envy, which is when your friend has a bicycle and you don’t, and you hope he breaks his neck going down a hill, and there’s good envy, which is when you want a bike like his and work your butt off to be able to buy one, even a used one, and it’s good envy that makes the world go round. And then there’s another envy, which is justice envy, which is when you can’t see any reason that a few people have everything and others are dying of hunger. And if you feel this fine sort of envy, which is socialist envy, you get busy trying to make a world in which riches are better distributed. But that’s exactly what the commandment prohibits you from doing. The tenth commandment prohibits revolution. Therefore, my dear boy, don’t kill and don’t steal from poor kids like yourself, but go ahead and covet what other people have taken from you. That’s the sun of the coming day, and that’s why our comrades are staying up there in the mountains, to get rid of Fat Head, who rose to power funded by agrarian landowners and by Hitler’s toadies, Hitler who wanted to conquer the world so that that guy Krupp who builds Berthas this long could sell more cannons. But you, how could you ever understand about these things, you who grew up memorizing oaths of obedience to Il Duce’s orders?” “No, I understand, even if not everything.” “I sure hope so.” I noticed that Gragnola always wore a long, thin leather sack that hung from his neck, beneath his shirt. “What’s that, Gragnola?” “A lancet.” “Were you studying to be a doctor?” “I was studying philosophy. I was given the lancet in Greece by a doctor in my regiment, before he died. ‘I don’t need this anymore,’ he told me. ‘That grenade has opened my belly. What I need now is one of those kits, like women have, with a needle and thread. But this hole is past stitching up. Keep the lancet to remember me by.’ And I’ve worn it ever since.” “Why?” “Because I’m a coward. With the things I do and the things I know, if the S.S. or the Black Brigades catch me, they’ll torture me. If they torture me, I’ll talk, because evil scares me. And I’ll be sending my comrades to their death. This way, if they catch me, I’ll cut my throat with the lancet. It doesn’t hurt, only takes a second—sffft. I’ll be screwing them all: the Fascists because they won’t learn a thing, the priests because I’ll be a suicide and that’s a sin, and God because I’ll be dying when I choose and not when he chooses. Put that in your pipe and smoke it.” Gragnola’s speeches left me sad. Not because I was sure they were evil but because I feared they were good. He lived in a world made sad by an evil God, and the only times I saw him smile with any tenderness were when he was talking to me about Socrates or Jesus. Both of whom, I would remind myself, were killed, so I did not see what there was to smile about. And yet he was not mean; he loved the people around him. He had it in only for God, and that must have been a real chore, because it was like throwing rocks at a rhinoceros—the rhinoceros never notices a thing and continues going about its rhino business, and meanwhile you are red with rage and ripe for a heart attack. When was it that my friends and I began the Great Game? In a world where everyone was shooting at everyone else, we needed an enemy. And we chose the kids up in San Martino, a village on the peak above us. The people of San Martino made ideal enemies, since in our minds they were all Fascists. In reality, that was not the case; it was just that two brothers from San Martino had joined the Black Brigades, while their two younger brothers had remained in the village and were the ringleaders of the bunch up there. But, still, the town was attached to its sons who had gone off to war, and in Solara it was whispered that the people of San Martino were not to be trusted. Fascists or not, we used to say that the boys of San Martino were no better than animals. The fact is that if you live in such an accursed place you have to get up to some mischief every day, just to feel alive. They had to come down to Solara for school, and we who lived in town used to look at them as if they were Gypsies. Many of us would bring a snack to school, bread and marmalade, and they were lucky if they had been given a wormy apple. In short, they had to do something, and on several occasions they bombarded us with rocks as we approached the gate of the Oratorio. We had to make them pay. So we decided to go up to San Martino and attack them while they played ball in the church piazza. But the only way to San Martino was by the road that went straight up, with no bends, and from the church piazza you could see if someone was coming. Thus we thought that we would never be able to take them by surprise. Until Durante, a farmer’s kid with a head as big and dark as an Abyssinian’s, said yes, we could, if we climbed the gorge. At the time, no one climbed up the gorge—and forget about coming down—because you would lose your footing at every step. Where there were no brambles, the earth fell away beneath you; you might see a thicket of acacia or blackberry with an opening right in the middle and think you had found a path, but it would be just a random patch of stony ground, and after ten steps you would start to slip, then fall to one side and tumble at least twenty metres. Even if you survived the fall without breaking any bones, the thorns would scratch your eyes out. On top of that, it was said to be thick with vipers. Climbing up would clearly require training. It took us a season: we started with ten metres the first day, memorizing each step and each crevice, trying to place our feet in the same places on the way down as we had on the way up, and the next day we worked on the next ten metres. We could not be seen from San Martino, so we had all the time we wanted. It was important not to improvise; we had to become like the animals that made their homes on the slopes of the gorge—the grass snakes, the lizards. Two of my friends got sprains, and one almost killed himself and skinned the palm of his hand trying to stop his fall, but in the end we were the only people in the world who knew how to climb the gorge. One afternoon, we risked it: we climbed for an hour or more and arrived out of breath, emerging from a dense thicket at the very base of San Martino, where between the houses and the precipice there was a walkway, with a wall along it to prevent the locals from falling over the precipice in the dark. Our path reached the wall at the very point where a gap opened, a breach wide enough for us to slip through. Beyond that was a lane that went past the door to the rectory, then opened right onto the church piazza. When we burst onto the piazza, the San Martino boys were in the middle of a game of blindman’s bluff. A masterstroke: one of them could not see at all and the others were jumping here and there in their efforts to avoid him. We launched our munitions, hitting one boy directly on the forehead, and the others fled into the church, seeking aid from the priest. That sufficed for the moment, and back down the lane we ran, through the gap, and down the gorge. The priest arrived in time to see our heads disappearing into the shrubs, and he hurled some terrible threats at us, and Durante shouted “Hah!” and clapped his left hand against his right biceps. But now the San Martino boys got wise. Seeing that we had come up the gorge, they placed sentinels at the breach in the wall. It is true that we could get almost right up to the wall before they were aware of us, but only almost: the last few metres were in the open, through blackthorn scrub that slowed our progress, giving the sentinel enough time to raise the alarm. They were ready at the end of the lane with sun-baked balls of mud, and they launched them at us before we could gain the walkway. It seemed a shame to have worked so hard learning to climb the gorge only to have to give it all up. Until Durante said, “We’ll learn to climb in the fog.” Since it was early autumn, there was as much fog in those parts as a person could want. On foggy days, the town of Solara disappeared, and the only thing that rose above all that gray was the San Martino bell tower. Being up in that tower was like being in a dirigible above the clouds. Climbing the gorge in the fog was much harder than climbing it in sunlight. You really had to learn every step by heart, be able to say such-and-such a rock is here, watch out for the edge of a dense thorn thicket there, five steps (five, not four or six) farther to the right the ground drops away suddenly, when you reach the boulder there will be a false path just to your left and if you follow it you will fall off a cliff. And so on. We made exploratory trips on clear days, then for a week we practiced by repeating the steps in our heads. I tried to make a map, as in an adventure book, but half my friends could not read maps. Too bad for them, I had it printed in my brain and could have traversed the gorge with my eyes closed—and going on a foggy night was essentially the same thing. After many test runs, we attempted our first expedition. Who knows how we made it to the top, but we did, and there they were, in the piazza, which was still free of fog, shooting the breeze—because in a place like San Martino either you hang out in the piazza or you go to bed after eating your soup of stale bread and milk. We entered the piazza, gave them a proper pelting, jeered them as they fled to their houses, and then climbed back down, victorious and exultant. After that we risked other raids, and they were unable to post sentinels even when it was just dark, because most of them were afraid of the dark, on account of hellcats. We who attended the Oratorio could not have cared less about hellcats, because we knew that half a Hail Mary would basically paralyze them. We kept that up for several months. Then we got bored: the climb was no longer a challenge, in any weather. It was noon on a Sunday. Something was happening, everyone already knew: two German trucks carrying soldiers had arrived in Solara; the men had searched half the town, and then taken the road up toward San Martino. A thick fog had settled in early that morning, and even the voices of sparrows in the tree branches came to us as if through cotton wool. There was supposed to be a funeral, but the people in the procession would not venture onto the cemetery road, and the gravedigger sent word that he would not be burying anyone that day, lest someone make a mistake while lowering the coffin and cause the gravedigger to fall into the grave himself. Two men from town had followed the Germans to find out what they were up to, and had seen them make their way slowly—headlights on but penetrating less than a metre—as far as the start of the ascent toward San Martino, and then stop, not daring to go on. Certainly not with their trucks, because they had no idea what was on either side of that steep incline, and they didn’t want to roll off a precipice—maybe they even expected treacherous curves. Nor did they dare to attempt it on foot, not knowing what was where. Someone, however, had explained to them that the only way up to San Martino was by that road, and in that weather no one could possibly get down any other way, because of the gorge. So then they placed trestles at the end of the road and waited there, headlights on and guns levelled, so that no one could pass, while one of them yelled into a field telephone, perhaps asking for reinforcements. Our informers said that they heard him repeat “volsunde, volsunde” a number of times. Gragnola explained at once that they were certainly asking for Wolfshunde; that is, German shepherds. The Germans waited there, and around four in the afternoon, with everything still a thick gray but also still light, they caught sight of someone coming down, on a bicycle. It was the parish priest of San Martino, who had been taking that road for who knows how many years and could even come down using his feet as brakes. Seeing a priest, the Germans held their fire, because, as we later learned, they were looking not for cassocks but for Cossacks. The priest explained, more with gestures than with words, that a man was dying on a farm near Solara and had called for extreme unction (he showed them the necessaries in a bag attached to the handlebars), and the Germans believed him. They let him pass, and the priest came to the Oratorio to whisper with Don Cognasso. Don Cognasso was not the sort to get involved in politics, but he knew what was what and, in just a few words, told the priest to tell Gragnola and his friends what there was to tell, because he himself would not and could not get mixed up in such matters. A group of young men quickly gathered around the card table, and I slipped in behind the last few, crouching a little to avoid notice. According to the priest, there was a small detachment of Cossacks with the German troops. They had been taken prisoner on the Russian front, but for reasons of their own the Cossacks had it in for Stalin, and many of them had been persuaded (motivated by money, by hatred of the Soviets, by a desire not to rot in a prison camp, or even by the chance to leave their Soviet paradise, taking horses, carts, and family with them) to enlist as auxiliaries. Most were fighting in eastern areas, like Carnia, where they were much feared for their toughness and ferocity. But there was also a Turkic division in the Pavia region—people called them Mongols. Former Russian prisoners, if not actually Cossacks, were roaming around in Piedmont, too, with the partisans. Everyone by now knew how the war was going to end, and, besides, the eight Cossacks in question were men with religious principles. After having seen two or three towns burned and poor people hanged by the dozen, and after two of their own number had been executed for refusing to shoot at old people and children, they had decided that they could no longer remain with the S.S. “Not only that,” Gragnola explained, “but if the Germans lose the war, and by now they’ve lost, what will the Americans and the English do? They’ll capture the Cossacks and give them back to the Russians, their allies. In Russia, these guys are kaputt. They’re now trying to join the Allies, so that after the war they’ll be given refuge somewhere, beyond the clutches of that Fascist Stalin.” “Indeed,” the priest said, “these eight have heard about the partisans, who are fighting with the English and the Americans, and they’re trying to reach them. They have their own ideas and are well informed: they don’t want to join the Garibaldini; they want to be Badogliani.” They had deserted who knows where, then headed toward Solara simply because someone had told them that the Badogliani were in the area. They had walked many kilometres, off the roads, moving only at night and so taking twice as long to get anywhere, but the S.S. had stayed on their heels, and it was a miracle that they had managed to reach us, begging food at the occasional farmhouse, communicating as best they could (although they all spoke a smattering of German, only one knew Italian), and always on the verge of running into people who might be spies. The day before, realizing that the S.S. was about to catch up with them, they had gone up to San Martino, thinking that from there they could fight off a battalion for a few days, and, after all, they might as well die bravely. Also, someone had told them that a certain Talino lived up there, and he knew someone who might be able to help them. At this point, they were a desperate bunch. They reached San Martino after dark and found Talino, who, however, told them that a Fascist family lived there and that, in a village that small, secrets didn’t last long. The only thing he could think of was to have them seek refuge in the rectory. The priest took them in, not for political reasons, or even out of the goodness of his heart, but because he saw that letting them wander about would be worse than hiding them. But he couldn’t keep them long. He didn’t have enough food for eight men, and he was scared witless, because if the Germans came they would waste no time in searching every house, including the rectory. “Boys, try to understand,” the priest said. “You’ve all read Kesselring’s manifesto—they’ve put it up everywhere. If they find those men in any of our houses, they’ll burn the town, and, even worse, if one of them shoots at the Germans they’ll kill us all.” Unfortunately, we had indeed seen Field Marshal Kesselring’s manifesto, and even without it we knew that the S.S. were not exactly subtle, and that they had already burned several towns. “And so?” Gragnola asked. “So, seeing that this fog has by the grace of God descended upon us, and seeing that the Germans don’t know the area, someone from Solara has to come up and get those blessed Cossacks, lead them back down, and take them to the Badogliani.” “And why someone from Solara?” “In primis, because, to be frank, if I speak about this with anyone in San Martino, word will begin to get around, and in these times the fewer words getting around the better. In secundis, because the Germans have closed the road and no one can get out by that route. Hence the only thing left is to go through the gorge.” Hearing mention of the gorge, the men all said, “What, do we look crazy? In fog like this? How come that Talino fellow can’t do it?,” and things of that kind. But the damn priest, after reminding them that Talino was eighty and couldn’t come down from San Martino even on the sunniest of days, added—and I say it was in revenge for the frights we boys from the Oratorio had given him—“The only people who know how to get through the gorge, even in fog, are your boys. Seeing as they learned that deviltry in order to make trouble, let them for once use their talents for the good. Bring the Cossacks down with the help of one of your boys.” “Christ,” Gragnola said, “even if that’s true, what would we do once we got them down—keep them in Solara so that on Monday morning they could be found among us instead of among you, and the Germans could burn our town instead?” In the group were Stivulu and Gigio, two men who had connections to the Resistance. “Calm down,” said Stivulu, the sharper of the two. “The Badogliani are, as we speak, in Orbegno, and neither the S.S. nor the Black Brigades have ever laid a hand on them there, because they stick to the high ground and control the entire valley with those English machine guns, which are astounding. From here to Orbegno, even in this fog, for somebody like Gigio, who knows the road, if he could use Bercelli’s truck, which has got headlights made specially for fog, that’s a two-hour trip. Let’s go ahead and say three, because it’s already getting dark. It’s five now, Gigio gets there by eight, he warns them, they come down a little way and wait by the Vignoletta crossroads. Then the truck’s back here by ten, let’s go ahead and say eleven, and it hides in that cluster of trees at the foot of the gorge, near the little chapel of the Madonna. One of us, after eleven, goes up the gorge, gets the Cossacks from the rectory, brings them down, loads them into the truck, and before morning those fellows are with the Badogliani.” “And we’re going through all this rigmarole, risking our necks, for eight Mamelukes or Kalmyks or Mongols or whatever, who were with the S.S. up until yesterday?” asked a man with red hair, whose name, I think, was Migliavacca. “Hey, buddy, these guys have changed their minds,” Gragnola said, “and that’s already a fine thing, but they’re also eight strong men who know how to shoot, so they’re useful. The rest is horseshit.” “They’re useful for the Badogliani,” Migliavacca snapped. “Badogliani or Garibaldini, they’re all fighting for freedom, and, as everybody’s always saying, the accounts will be settled later, not sooner. We’ve got to save the Cossacks.” “You’re right, too. And, after all, they’re Soviet citizens, so they belong to the great fatherland of socialism,” said a man named Martinengo, who had not quite kept up with all the turning of coats. But these were months when people were doing all sorts of things. Take Gino, who had been in the Black Brigades, and one of the more fanatical members, and then ran off to join the partisans and returned to Solara wearing a red neckerchief. But he was impulsive, and came back when he should have stayed away, to meet a girl, and the Black Brigades caught him and executed him in Asti at dawn one day. “In short, it can be done,” Gragnola said. “There’s just one problem,” Migliavacca said. “Even the priest said that only the kids know how to climb the gorge, and I wouldn’t involve a kid in such a delicate situation. Questions of judgment aside, a kid’s likely to go around blabbing about it.” “No,” Stivulu said. “For example, take Yambo here—none of you even noticed him, but he’s heard everything. Yambo knows the gorge like the back of his hand, and he’s got a good head on his shoulders, and, what’s more, he’s not the type to talk. I’d stake my life on it, and, besides, everyone in his family is on our side, so we’re not running any risks.” I broke out in a cold sweat and started to say that it was late and I was expected at home. Gragnola pulled me aside and rattled off a slew of fine words. That it was for freedom; that it was to save eight poor wretches; that even boys my age could be heroes; that, after all, I’d climbed the gorge many times and this time wouldn’t be any different from the others, except there would be eight Cossacks coming down behind me and I would have to be careful not to lose them; that, in any case, the Germans were way over there, waiting at the end of the road like dumb-asses with no idea where the gorge was; that he would come with me even though he was sick, because you cannot turn your back when duty calls; that we would go not at eleven but, rather, at midnight, when everyone in my house was already asleep and I could slip out unnoticed, and the next day they would see me back in my bed as if nothing had happened. And so on, hypnotizing me. Finally I said yes. After all, it was an adventure I would later be able to tell stories about, a partisan thing, a coup unlike any of Flash Gordon’s in the forests of Arboria. Unlike any of Tremal-Naik’s in the Black Jungle. Better than Tom Sawyer in the mysterious cave. But, since I had a good head on my shoulders, I immediately set a few things straight with Gragnola. He was saying that, with eight Cossacks in tow, we risked losing them on the way down, and so we should get a nice long rope to tie everyone together, as mountain climbers do, and that way each could follow the next even without seeing where he was going. I said no, if we were roped together like that and the first man fell, he would pull everyone else down with him. What we needed were ten pieces of rope: each of us would hold tight to the end of the rope of the person in front of us and to the end of the rope of the person behind us, and if we felt one of them falling we would immediately let go of our end, because it was better that one should fall than all of us. “You’re sharp,” Gragnola said. I asked him excitedly if he was going to come armed, and he said no—in the first place, because he would never hurt a fly, but also because if there were, God forbid, an engagement, the Cossacks were armed, and, finally, in the event that he was unlucky enough to get caught, they might not put him up against the wall right away if he was unarmed. We went and told the priest that we were in agreement, and to have the Cossacks ready by one in the morning. I went home for dinner around seven. The rendezvous was for midnight by the little chapel of the Madonna, and it would take me forty-five minutes of brisk walking to get there. “Do you have a watch?” Gragnola asked. “No,” I told him, “but at eleven, when everyone goes to bed, I’ll wait in the dining room where there’s a clock.” Dinner at home with my mind aflame, after dinner a show of listening to the radio and looking at my stamps. At eleven, the house was immersed in silence, and I was in the dining room, in the dark. Every now and then, I lighted a match to check the clock. At eleven-fifteen, I slipped out, and set off through the fog toward the little chapel of the Madonna. Gragnola was there, and complained that I was late. I realized he was trembling. Not I. I was now in my element. He handed me the end of a rope, and we began climbing up the gorge. I had the map in my head, but Gragnola kept saying, “Oh, God, I’m falling.” I moved my feet as if following the score of a piece of music; that must be how pianists do it—with their hands, I mean, not their feet—and I did not miss a step. But he, even though he was following me, kept stumbling. And coughing. I often had to turn around and pull him by the hand. The fog was thick, but from half a metre away we could see each other. If I pulled the rope, Gragnola would emerge from dense vapors, which seemed to dissipate all at once, and appear suddenly before me, like Lazarus throwing off his shroud. The climb lasted a good hour, but that was about average. The only time I warned Gragnola to be careful was when we reached the boulder. If, instead of going around it and rejoining the path, you mistakenly went to the left, feeling pebbles beneath your feet, you would end up in the ravine. We reached the top, at the gap in the wall, and San Martino was a single invisible mass. We go straight, I told him, down the lane. Count at least twenty steps and we’ll be at the rectory door. We knocked at the door as we had agreed: three knocks, a pause, then three more. The priest came to let us in. He was a dusty pale color, like the clematis along the roads in summer. The eight Cossacks were there, armed like bandits and scared as children. Gragnola talked with the one who knew Italian. He spoke it quite well, though with a bizarre accent, but Gragnola, as people do with foreigners, spoke to him in infinitives. “You to go ahead of friends and to follow me and child. You to say to your men what I say, and they to do what I say. Understand?” “I understand, I understand. We’re ready.” The priest, who was about to piss himself, opened the door and let us out into the lane. And at that very moment we heard, from the end of the village where the road came in, several Teutonic voices and the yelp of a dog. “God damn it all to hell,” Gragnola said, and the priest did not even blink. “The toadies made it up here, they’ve got dogs, and dogs don’t give a rat’s ass about fog—they go by their noses. What the hell do we do now?” The leader of the Cossacks said, “I know how they do. One dog every five men. We go just the same, maybe we meet ones without dog.” “Rien ne va plus,” said Gragnola the learned. “We do go slow. And we do shoot only if I say. We prepare handkerchiefs or rags, and other ropes.” Then he explained to me, “We’ll hurry to the end of the lane and stop at the corner. If no one’s there, we’ll go right through the wall and be gone. If anyone comes and they’ve got dogs, we’re fucked. If it comes to it, we’ll shoot at them and the dogs, but it depends how many they are. If, on the other hand, they don’t have dogs, we’ll let them pass, come up behind them, bind their hands, and stick rags in their mouths, so they can’t yell.” “And then leave them there?” “Yeah, right. No, we take them with us into the gorge, there’s nothing else for it.” He quickly explained all that again to the Cossack, who repeated it to his men. The priest gave us some rags, and some cords from the holy vestments. “Go, go,” he was saying, “and God protect you.” We headed down the lane. At the corner, we heard German voices coming from the left, but no barks or yelps. We pressed flat against the wall. We heard two men approaching, talking to each other, probably cursing the fact that they could not see where they were going. “Only two,” Gragnola explained with signs. “Let them pass, then on them.” The two Germans, who had been sent to comb that area while the others took the dogs around the piazza, were going along almost on tiptoe, with their rifles pointed, but they could not even see that a lane was there, and so they passed it. The Cossacks threw themselves on the two shadows and showed that they were good at what they did. In a flash, the two men were on the ground with rags in their mouths, each one held by two of those demoniacs, while a third tied their hands behind them. “We did it,” Gragnola said. “Now you, Yambo, toss their rifles over the wall, and you, push the Germans behind us, down where we go.” I was terrified, and now Gragnola became the leader. Getting through the wall was easy. Gragnola passed out the ropes. The problem was that, except for the first and the last in line, each person had to have both hands occupied, one for the front rope and the other for the back rope. But if you have to push two trussed Germans, you cannot hold a rope, and for the first ten steps the group went forward by shoving, until we slipped into the first thickets. At that point, Gragnola tried to reorganize the rope system. Each man who was leading a German tied his rope to his prisoner’s gun belt. Each who was following held onto the prisoner’s collar with his right hand, and with his left held onto the rope of the man behind him. But, just as we were preparing to set off again, one of the Germans tripped and fell onto the guard in front of him, taking the one behind with him, and the chain was broken. Under their breath, the Cossacks hissed what must have been curses in their language, but they had the good sense to do so without shouting. One German, after the initial fall, tried to get back up and distance himself from the group. Two Cossacks began groping their way after him and might have lost him, except that he did not know where he was going, either, and after a few steps he slipped and fell forward, and they had him again. In the confusion, his helmet fell off. The leader of the Cossacks made it clear that we should not leave it there, because if the dogs came they could follow the scent and would track us down. Only then did we realize that the second German was bareheaded. “God damn those bastards,” Gragnola murmured. “His helmet fell off when we took him in the alley. If they get there with their dogs, they’ll have the scent!” Nothing for it. And, indeed, we had gone only a few metres farther when we heard voices from above, and dogs barking. “They’ve reached the alley, the animals have sniffed the helmet, and they’re saying we’ve come this way. Stay calm and quiet. First, they have to find the gap in the wall, and if you don’t know it it’s not easy. Second, they have to get down. If their dogs are cautious and go slow, they’ll go slow, too. If the dogs go fast, they won’t be able to keep up and will fall on their asses. They don’t have you, Yambo. Go as fast as you can, let’s move.” “I’ll try, but I’m scared.” “You’re not scared, just nervous. Take a deep breath and move.” I was about to piss myself, like the priest, but at the same time I knew that everything depended on me. My teeth were clenched, and in that moment I would rather have been Giraffone or Jojo than Romano the Legionnaire; Horace Horsecollar or Clarabelle Cow than Mickey Mouse in the House of Seven Haunts; Signor Pampurio in his apartment than Flash Gordon in the swamps of Arboria, but when you are on the dance floor there is nothing to do but dance. I started down the gorge as fast as I could, replaying each step in my mind. The two prisoners were slowing us down; with the rags in their mouths they had a hard time breathing and paused every minute. After at least fifteen minutes we came to the boulder, and I was so sure of where it was that I touched it with my outstretched hand before I could even see it. We had to stay close together as we went around it, because if anyone veered right he would come to the ledge and the ravine. The voices above us could still be heard distinctly, but it was unclear whether that was because the Germans were yelling louder to incite their reluctant dogs, or whether they had made it past the wall and were approaching. The two prisoners, hearing their comrades’ voices, tried to jerk away, and when they weren’t actually falling they were pretending to fall, trying to roll off to the side, unafraid of injuring themselves. They had realized that we could not shoot them, because of the noise, and that wherever they ended up the dogs would find them. They no longer had anything to lose, and, like anyone with nothing to lose, they had become dangerous. Suddenly, we heard machine-gun fire. Not being able to come down, the Germans had decided to fire. But they had almost a hundred and eighty degrees of the gorge in front of them and no idea which way we had gone, so they were firing all over the place. Also, they had not realized how steep the gorge was, and they were firing almost horizontally. When they fired in our direction, we could hear the bullets whistling over our heads. “Let’s move, let’s move,” Gragnola said. “They still won’t get us.” But the first Germans must have begun climbing down, getting an idea of the slope of the terrain, and the dogs must have begun heading in a more precise direction. Now they were shooting down, and more or less at us. We heard some bullets murmur through nearby bushes. “No fear,” the Cossack said. “I know the Reichweite of their Maschinen.” “The range of those machine guns,” Gragnola offered. “Yes, that. If they do not come more far down and we go fast, then the bullets will not reach to us anymore. So quick.” “Gragnola,” I said, with huge tears in my eyes, “I can go quicker, but the rest of you can’t. You can’t drag these two with us, there’s no point in me running down like a goat if they keep holding us up. Let’s leave them here, or I swear I’m taking off on my own.” “If we leave them here, they’ll get loose in a flash and call down the others,” Gragnola said. “I kill them with the butt of machine gun, that makes no noise,” the Cossack hissed. The idea of killing those two poor men froze me, but I regained my composure when Gragnola growled, “It’s no good, God damn it, even if we leave them here dead, the dogs will find them, and the others will know which way we’ve gone. There’s only one thing to do: cause them to fall in some other direction, so the dogs will go that way and we might gain ten minutes or even more. Yambo, to the right here, isn’t there that false path that leads to the ravine? Good, we’ll push them down there, you said that anyone going that way won’t notice the ledge and will fall easily, then the dogs will lead the Germans to the bottom. Before they can recover from that blow, we’re in the valley. A fall from there will kill them, right?” “No, I didn’t say that a fall from there would definitely kill them. You’ll break bones, if you’re unlucky you might hit your head . . .” “God damn you, how come you said one thing and now you’re saying another? So maybe their ropes will come loose as they’re falling, and when they come to a stop they’ll still have enough breath to yell and warn the others to be careful!” “Then they must fall when they are already dead,” the Cossack, who knew how things worked in this dirty world, commented. I was right next to Gragnola and could see his face. He had always been pale, but he was paler now. He stood there gazing upward, as if seeking inspiration from the heavens. In that moment, we heard a frr frrr of bullets passing near us at the level of a man’s head. One of the Germans shoved his guard and both fell to the ground, and the Cossack started complaining because the first one was butting him in the teeth with his head, gambling everything and trying to make noise. That was when Gragnola made his decision and said, “It’s them or us. Yambo, if I go right, how many steps before the ledge?” “Ten steps, ten of mine, maybe eight for you, but if you push your foot out in front of you you’ll feel it start to slope away, and from that point to the ledge it’s four steps. To be safe, take three.” “O.K.,” Gragnola said, turning to the Cossack. “I’ll go forward, two of you push these two toadies, hold them tight by the shoulders. Everybody else stays here.” “What are you going to do?” I asked, my teeth chattering. “You shut up. This is war. Wait here with them. That’s an order.” They disappeared to the right of the boulder, swallowed by the fog. We waited several minutes, heard the skittering of stones and several thuds, then Gragnola and the two Cossacks reappeared, without the Germans. “Let’s move,” Gragnola said. “Now we can go faster.” He put a hand on my arm and I could feel him trembling. Now that he was closer I could see him again: he was wearing a sweater that was snug around his neck, and the lancet case was hanging over his chest, as if he had taken it out. “What did you do with them?” I asked, crying. “Don’t think about it, it was the right thing. The dogs will smell the blood and that’s where they’ll lead the others. We’re safe, let’s go.” And when he saw that my eyes were bulging out: “It was them or us. Two instead of ten. It’s war. Let’s go.” After nearly half an hour, during which we kept hearing angry shouts and barking from above, but not coming toward us, indeed getting farther away, we reached the bottom of the gorge, and the road. Gigio’s truck was waiting nearby, in the cluster of trees. Gragnola loaded the Cossacks onto it. “I’m going with them, to make sure they reach the Badogliani,” he said. He was trying not to look at me—he was in a hurry to see me leave. “You go on from here, get back home. You’ve been strong. You deserve a medal. And don’t think about the rest. You did your duty. If anyone is guilty of anything, it’s me alone.” I returned home sweating, despite the cold, and exhausted. Maybe I was running a fever. I have to confess, I have to confess, I kept saying to myself. The next morning was worse. I had to get up more or less at the usual hour, and Mamma could not understand why I was so addle-brained. Several hours later, Gigio showed up at our house. I signalled to him to meet me in the vineyard. He couldn’t hide anything from me. Gragnola had escorted the Cossacks to the Badogliani, then returned, with Gigio and the truck, to Solara. The Badogliani had told them that they should not go around at night unarmed: they had learned that a detachment of Black Brigades had gone to Solara to assist their comrades. They gave Gragnola a musket. The trip to and from the Vignoletta crossroads took a total of three hours. They returned the truck to Bercelli’s farm, then set out walking on the road to Solara. After all that tension, they were trying to cheer each other up, slapping each other on the back, making noise. And so they failed to notice that the men from the Black Brigades were crouching in a ditch, and they were caught, barely two kilometres from town. They had weapons on them when they were taken and could not explain them away. They were thrown into the back of a van. There were only five of the Fascists, two up front, two in back facing them, and one standing on the front running board, to help see better in the fog. The Fascists hadn’t bothered to tie them up, since the two who were guarding them were sitting with submachine guns across their laps, and Gigio and Gragnola had been thrown down like sacks. At a certain point, Gigio heard a strange noise, like fabric tearing, and felt a viscous liquid spray him in the face. One of the Fascists heard a gasp, turned on a flashlight, and there was Gragnola, lancet in hand, with his throat cut. The two Fascists started cursing, stopped the van, and with Gigio’s help dragged Gragnola to the side of the road. He was already dead, or nearly, spilling blood everywhere. The three others had come over, too, and they were all blaming each other, saying that he couldn’t croak like that because command needed to make him talk, and they would all be arrested for having been so stupid, failing to tie up the prisoners. While they were yelling over Gragnola’s body, they forgot Gigio for a moment and he, in the confusion, thought, Now or never. He took off across the ditch, knowing there was a steep slope beyond it. They fired a few shots, but he had already rolled to the bottom of the ditch like an avalanche, and then hidden among some trees. In that fog, he would have been a needle in a haystack, and the Fascists weren’t too interested in making a big deal out of it, because it was obvious by then that they had to hide Gragnola’s body and go back to their command pretending they hadn’t taken anyone that night, in order to avoid trouble with their leaders. That morning, after the Black Brigades left to meet up with the Germans, Gigio had taken a few friends to the site of the tragedy, and, after searching the ditches awhile, they found Gragnola. The priest of Solara would not allow the corpse in the church, because Gragnola had been an anarchist and by now it was known that he was a suicide, too, but Don Cognasso said to bring him to the little church at the Oratorio, since the Lord knew the proper rules better than his priests. Gragnola was dead. He had saved the Cossacks, got me back safely, and then died. I knew perfectly well how it had happened, he had foretold it too many times. He was a coward and feared that if they tortured him he would talk, would name names, sending his comrades to the slaughterhouse. It was for them he had died. Just like that, sffft, as I was sure he had done with the two Germans—a kind of Dantesque poetic justice, perhaps. The courageous death of a coward. He had paid for the only violent act of his life, and in the process purged himself of that remorse he was carrying within him and would no doubt have found unbearable. He had screwed them all: Fascists, Germans, and God, in a single stroke. Sffft. Even in my memories, the fog is thinning. I now see the partisans entering Solara in triumph, and on April 25th comes the news of Milan’s liberation. People swarm the streets, the partisans shoot into the air, they arrive perched on the fenders of their trucks. A few days later, I see a soldier, dressed in olive drab, bicycling up the drive between the rows of horse-chestnut trees. He lets me know that he is Brazilian, then goes happily off to explore his exotic surroundings. Were there Brazilians, too, with the Americans and the British? No one had ever told me that. Drôle de guerre. The news of the German surrender arrives. Hitler is dead. The war is over. In Solara there is a huge party in the streets, people hugging each other, some dancing to the sounds of an accordion. I emerge from the tragedy, amid a crowd of radiant people, with the images of the two Germans falling into the ravine and of Gragnola, virgin and martyr—out of fear, out of love, and out of spite. I lack the courage to go to Don Cognasso and confess . . . and, besides, confess what? Something I did not do, or even see, but only guessed at? Not having anything to ask forgiveness for, I cannot even be forgiven. It’s enough to make a person feel damned forever. (Translated, from the Italian, by Geoffrey Brock.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Conductor	The Conductor The New Yorker, February 28, 2005 P. 70 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. In the 1989 “Anthology of Contemporary Bosnian Poetry,” Muhamed D. was represented with four poems. My copy of the anthology disappeared during the war, and I can’t recall the titles of the poems, but I do remember the subjects: one of them had all the minarets of Sarajevo lighting up simultaneously at sunset on a Ramadan day; another showed the deaf Beethoven conducting his Ninth Symphony, unaware of the audience’s ovations until the contralto touched his shoulder and turned him around. I was in my mid-twenties when the book came out, and compulsively writing poetry every day. I bought the anthology to see where I would fit into the pleiad of Bosnian poets. I found Muhamed D.’s poems silly and fake; his use of Beethoven struck me as pretentious and his mysticism alien to my own rock-and-roll affectations. But, in one of the few reviews the anthology received, the critic raved, in syntax tortured on the rack of platitudes, about the range of Muhamed D.’s poetic skills and the courage he had shown by shedding the primitive Bosnian tradition for more modern forms. “Not only is Muhamed D. the greatest living Bosnian poet,” the reviewer said, “he is the only one who is truly alive.” . . . View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Up North	We angled our heads back and opened our mouths like fledgling birds. Smoke gave the cool air a faintly burned flavor, an aftertaste of ash. A single flake lit on my wife’s eyelash, a stellar crystal, cold and intricate. I blew a warm breath over her face, melting the snow. “It’s been falling since Saginaw,” I said. “Listen,” she said. The flight from New York had been rough, and my ears were still blocked, but somewhere in the distance, beyond the immediate silence of the falling snow and the thick woods, I heard the muffled echo of rifle shots. “Deer season,” Caroline said. “Your father go out?” “He usually goes,” she said. “He and the boys. And now you. Now you’ll be one of the boys.” Caroline brushed her hair free of a few tangles and clipped it back in a ponytail that made her look a decade younger—say, twenty years old, taking her back to a time before I’d met her. Perhaps in reflex I remembered the sensation I’d had the first night we slept together, thinking how beautiful she was, how from every angle and in every light she was flawless, like some kind of figurine. Now she examined herself in the small round mirror she’d pulled from her purse, grimacing. The shallow cup of the compact looked to be holding a kind of flesh dust, a spare skin. She dabbed powder around her cheeks, the set line of her jaw. She took a thick brush and stroked a line on either side of her face, magically lifting her cheekbones. She traced her lips lightly with a subdued shade of red and suddenly she was smiling. “Up a ways there’s a fork,” she said. “You want to stay right.” Before I could start the car again, two men in orange caps crossed in front of us, rifles slung over their shoulders. They stopped in the road and waved, the ears beneath their caps like pink blossoms in the raw cold, and then they bumbled into the woods. I stared at their fresh footprints in the snow. “You know them?” I asked. “No,” she said. At the cabin, we ate a late lunch without the men, who were out on a mission that was, it seemed, top secret. Caroline’s mother, Lucy, had been kept in the dark, and so had Sandy Rababy, whose husband, Steve, was a partner in the accounting firm founded by Caroline’s father. We ate tuna sandwiches and potato chips on paper plates that had been gnawed by mice. Lucy set out a plastic tray of carrots and celery sticks and black olives. We drank mulled wine in Dixie cups, from which I nervously nibbled the wax coating. “They took their guns and vests and packed peanut-butter sandwiches and a half gallon of Scotch,” Sandy said. “Now, where do you think they’re going?” “We heard guns on the drive in,” I said. “Isn’t it awful?” Lucy said. “What’s worse,” Sandy said, “the toilet’s busted.” “It froze,” Lucy said, “and the bowl cracked. Or the pipes broke or something. We’re using the outhouse.” She pointed, and through the window I saw a rickety, leaning structure, and a dirty trough of footprints in the snow where people had traipsed back and forth. “You need to wear a fluorescent hat out there,” Sandy said, “so you don’t get shot trying to relieve yourself.” The cabin was open and cozy, a single large room with a high ceiling, and although I’d never been there before, it struck me as familiar. It was rustic and unpretentious, with that haphazardly curatorial décor that accumulates in old family haunts. At one end was a large fireplace constructed of smooth stones hauled up from the lakeshore, and at the other end were the log bunks where we’d all sleep. Everything that had ever happened here was, in a way, still happening: the smell of wet woollens steaming by the stove, of dry leather gathering dust, of iodine and burned logs and Coppertone—all of it lingered in the air. Two persistent grayling, long extinct in Michigan, surfaced in the wash of light above the back windows, and even the mounted deer and elk heads flanking the fireplace suggested souvenirs from some gone, legendary time. It was exactly the kind of abiding paradise people create for their kids just so that, long after the last summer, the past will live on. “Caroline, you’re quiet,” Lucy said to her daughter, my wife, who sat with her legs crossed at the head of the table. The minute we arrived, Caroline had gone directly to an old gouged dresser and, from the bottom drawer, pulled out a man’s bulky knit sweater, which she wore now—it was green and moth-eaten and voluminous, belonging to her father, whose girth was still a ghostly, orotund presence in the stiff wool. As soon as she sank into the sweater, it was as if she were officially home, and no longer had to explain herself. She took a bite of her sandwich, and her silver earrings shivered against her neck, catching the light. They were a gift, I imagined, from S.J., the man whose initials now coded her journal and datebook. She bunched a sleeve of the sweater above her elbow, and said, “Tell me the news.” “You know Lindstrom’s wife passed away?” Lucy said. Caroline said, “Poor Lindy.” “He’s very depressed, especially coming up here,” Sandy said. “This is the first Thanksgiving without her.” I’d met Lindy and his wife, Beth Ann, on several occasions when the whole group had come to New York for a weekend of theatre. They, like Sandy and Steve Rababy, were lifelong friends of the Jansens. They’d all met in college, when the men were brothers at the Phi Delt fraternity in Ann Arbor, and now, years later, the group remained intact and inseparable except for this death. “Hey, Daly, what about these lips?” Sandy said, sliding the torn page of a magazine toward me. She’d had cheek implants and was currently in the market for new lips. I was meant to offer a proxy opinion for all men. The woman in the magazine was pouting sadly or seductively, it was hard to tell, and she was looking confused or far off into the distance, also hard to tell. “Those are Caroline’s lips,” I said. Sandy held the page to her nose, and then looked at Caroline, who modelled a little moue. “You’re right, they are,” Sandy said. “I want your lips.” “They’re spoken for,” my wife said, touching my knee under the table, quaintly. Caroline heard the men come up the tote road around nine o’clock. I went outside and watched as her father horsed the truck over a hillock of snow, rocking it back and forth and stubbornly and finally into the yard. “Where’s my little girl?” Robert Jansen said as soon as he saw me. His voice boomed, a deep bass that echoed away, bounding into the woods. He looked past me toward the lighted door of the cabin, where Caroline stood, her long blue shadow thrown on the snow. “Hi, Daddy,” she said. “How’d it go?” Sandy shouted from the kitchen. It was obvious as the men stood warming their hands at the fire that part of what had been top secret about their day involved a bar. Their cheeks flushed red and their eyes sparked wetly and none of them were able to stand perfectly still—they looked like a trio of overweight crooners, swaying boozily in the soft light for a last song. Lucy rattled a plastic jar of aspirin and set it out on the table with a pitcher of ice water. “So?” she said. Lindy lifted a log into the fire, raking the bed of coals with an iron, and wiped his hands. “No luck,” Steve said. “But you found the bar all right,” Lucy said. “Huh—yeah,” Sandy said. “The bar wasn’t running through the woods.” “Tomorrow,” Mr. Jansen offered. He was a large man, so large he always struck me as unfinished, the rough framing of a man who would never fully occupy the space he’d annexed. He had a flat owlish face and arched gray eyebrows and a pounding, theatrical voice. It was he, more than anyone else, who had encouraged my wife in her acting career. “And Daly’ll come along.” I knew better than to object, although I’d fired a gun only twice in my life, and both times I’d missed the can. There was no romance for me in weapons, and I found it effortful to be around men who liked to shoot. I always had, beginning with my father, who was an avid gun collector and fancied himself a marksman. In an act of adolescent defiance, I’d become an equally avid birder, a member of the local Audubon, and a preachy vegetarian, turning the table into a pulpit while my father, ignoring me, packed it away, head bent over his plate. Now I stared at the men, looking them in the eye, one by one—I had rehearsed this moment for weeks—but learned nothing when, to my surprise, each of them averted his eyes. “How about fixing the damn toilet instead?” Sandy said. “What’s wrong with the outhouse?” her husband countered. “The forest is full of drunks with guns,” Sandy said. “Girls don’t like that.” When I thought I was the only one awake, I reached for Caroline’s thigh, sliding my hand inside her nightgown. In the cold cabin, she was like the discovery of buried warmth, of hibernating life. I heard the fire pop and hiss, the crumbling sound as the pile of logs collapsed and settled. Stirred by the noise, Lindy rose and stoked the fire, adding a few logs and some split cedar shakes. Steve snored loudly, and Sandy whispered something to him, and I heard them both grunt and turn over in bed. With the fire rekindled, a cobweb fluttered in the waves of rising heat, and the thin gray filament threw a shadow that wound and unwound, snaking along the far wall. I moved my hand up Caroline’s thigh until I felt the rough edge of pubic hair curling out from beneath the elastic band of her G-string. I slipped a finger under the band, and then I reached for myself. Caroline rose up, startled, and said, “What, what,” but I don’t think she ever fully woke. She stared around herself, still safely in her dream, and then she lay back down, balling up beneath the comforter with her back to me. My wife was raped the summer she turned eighteen. She told me this after we’d been together for a year, on a night when I’d once again caught her crying for no apparent reason. I felt instantly that I’d known all along. An entire history and sensibility suddenly pulled into focus, and there was Caroline, my wife, the blur of herself resolved into something sharp and clear. Our whole time together, I sensed that I had been tracing the contours of that moment, describing and defining its shape. This was, I thought, the elusive thing I’d been trying to put my hands on. For months afterward, I found myself drifting away from conversations as I rehearsed the scenario in my mind. What I imagined was horrible for me—the rain and the bushes, a black man, a knife. I saw things. I saw the underpants she’d have to pull on again when he was done, I saw her walk home in a world suddenly gone strange, I saw the mud she’d have to wash off the backs of her thighs and the way the stream of gray would circle the drain, I saw pebbles embedded in her knees, I saw her days later, alone and crying, dropping the knife the first time she cut into a tomato, I saw the halved red fruit on the white cutting board the next morning, the spilled seeds now dried to the plastic. I saw these things, I imagined them. Our life together took on a second intention, and a sock on the floor would stop me cold. My eyes would lose focus and I’d daydream, trying to capture the moment and make it less strange, trying to inhabit the past, intervening. I wanted to be there, and, failing, I developed instead a tendency to ascribe every dip and depression to the rape, organizing our shared life around it, carrying it forward into our future like a germ. I now understand that rape is more often than not a domestic matter, but I was deeply confused when, after pressuring my wife relentlessly, she told me that the rapist was a close friend of her father’s. I had staked all my understanding on increasingly elaborate and far-fetched horrors, but the dark stranger I had been improvising was a grotesque cliché. She had been raped here, in this cabin, on her annual trip up north. My desire to know more—I wanted his name, I wanted her to say it—was met with a steady resistance, an intricate system of refusals, with the result that, constantly sparring, skirmishing, denying, we were never very deeply honest with each other. Caroline was resolute. She wouldn’t talk about it, except to say that the truth would kill her father. “He wouldn’t be able to take it,” she said. I had never been up north, refusing until now to make the annual trip. This is not easy for me to say, so I’ll start with the clinical by saying that Caroline was anorgasmic: she’d never had a climax, not with me or anyone else, not even by herself. Like many other men before me, I believed that I would remedy that problem, that it was merely a matter of prowess and patience, of a deeper love and a greater persistence, but no matter what we did—the books, the scents, the oils, all the hoodoo of love—none of it changed a thing. With time, my conceit broke down. In defeat I came to feel weak and ashamed. In some way, her lack of sexual fulfillment accounted for her promiscuity: what she missed in intensity she made up for in scope. She had never been a faithful lover, either before or after our marriage; she preferred sex with strangers, which I could never be, not again. It was as if she were determined to revisit, over and over, that original moment of absolute strangeness. And yet she continued to need the scrim of familiarity I offered, so that the world would fill more sharply with the unfamiliar. Daily I lost more and more of my status as a stranger, and our marriage was like a constant halving of the distance, without ever arriving at the moment in time where, utterly familiar, I’d vanish. Caroline was currently having an affair with a talent agent, a man from London who, roughly a month ago, had begun to make regular appearances in her diary and datebook as S.J. In her Filofax: “Lunch w/ S.J.” “S.J. for drinks.” A page with his home number, then his address scribbled on the square for October 23rd. (Before S.J., there’d been an M., a D., a G. She always used initials, some nicety of convention she must have come across in adolescence.) I had, of course, taken to reading her journal, hoping it contained some sort of truth. I’d read the most recent entry as I read all of them, at three in the morning, crouched on the side of the tub in our tiny bathroom, in terror of being discovered, my skin blue and bloodless under the frank fluorescent light. In that entry she considers whether she should go with S.J., the week after Thanksgiving, to his house in Vermont, telling me—what, she wonders. That she’s landed a part in a commercial shoot that will take her overnight to Boston? What part? And what commercial? she asks herself, plotting for the plausible, the approximate, some arrangement of words that would deceive and soothe and sound, recognizably, like our life. The truck was loaded and we were off before dawn, while the women still slept. The sky was slate blue and brittle, and at one point I saw the green flare of a meteor burn out above a line of trees. It happened so fast that I doubted myself in the very moment of wonder, and, feeling sleepy and uncertain, decided not to mention it to anybody. I imagined that a kind of fraternal ridicule kept this group cohesive, and I didn’t want to become the scapegoat who helped them bond. Mr. Jansen stopped for coffee at a filling station, where trucks and cars idled in the raw air, their headlamps lighting the tiny lot. Hunters were already heading back to the city with their kills. Nearly every car was tricked out with a carcass—a six-point buck strapped to the roof of a yellow Cadillac, the head of a doe lolling beneath the lid of a half-closed trunk. Steve reached into his pocket and pulled out a pack of cigarettes. He tapped a few loose and, turning to me, said, “Smoke?” “Can’t you wait?” Lindy said. “I’ll crack the window.” “Fuck, just wait.” “No, thanks,” I said, waving away the offer. Steve had been the first up that morning, and he’d taken the time to shave. His red jowly face was smooth and smelled of lime. Below his ear a spot of blood had dried where he’d nicked himself. I’ve never really liked men on whom I can smell cosmetic products, and it was that morning, in the truck, so close to Steve, that I realized it had nothing to do with the particular soap or aftershave but with the proximity. If I could smell a man, he was too close. Now Steve lit a cigarette and inhaled with a grimace, relishing the pain. “How’s things in insurance?” he asked. “Good enough,” I said. “You’re an adjuster, right? Claims?” I nodded. Mr. Jansen returned with the coffee. He poured a cup from the thermos, and we passed it around, heading up the highway. We turned onto a narrow rutted road, which ended in a blinding expanse of white. A dirty beige Pontiac was parked next to a rotted fence—dark leaning posts from which coils of rusted barbed wire ran like cross-stitching through the quilted fields of snow. We got out of the truck. “Hey, Tennessee,” Mr. Jansen said. The man in the car rolled down his window. A cigarette hung from his lip and toast crumbs flecked his beard. He had hard blue eyes and a red scar along the side of his nose. A little girl slept next to him, wrapped in a blanket. “Boys,” he said, with a faint nod. He gazed through the windshield, his eyes fixed on something distant and still. “Cleared off a patch in the snow and put down corn.” Steve reached for his wallet. It was fat with credit cards, and an accordion of brittle plastic held photos of his wife and two kids. He leaned through the window. “C-note?” he said. Tennessee nodded. “That’s a costly turkey,” Steve said. Tennessee swallowed. “You only get one, I guess it might be.” He continued to stare through the windshield. He didn’t seem unfriendly, just far away, preserving his distance, as if he weren’t really a party to this. Next to him, his little girl turned in her sleep, and he adjusted the blanket over her bare legs. Steve handed him the money. Tennessee put the folded bill in his shirt pocket without looking at it and slipped the car into gear, easing through the dry snow. When he was gone, Steve said, “Hard-up fucking hillbilly.” Mr. Jansen was unracking the guns and gathering our packs. We wore bulky camouflage snowsuits, each the same pattern—dark branches on a white background. We had only three guns, and so I carried the decoy, a brown plastic hen with galvanized-steel legs. Thinking of Tennessee, I wondered if we were trespassing. I guessed that baiting was illegal but kept quiet. Despite myself, I was looking forward to the hunt, and I hurried along in step with the others, through the deep drifted snow until, at the edge of the field, we came to the blind. “Jesus,” Steve said, after we’d crowded in. He pulled out a monogrammed silver flask and poured us each a jigger of Scotch, as “an eyeopener,” he said. He winked at me, and said, “Sitting all day in a blind with a bunch of liberals.” “I think you’ll survive,” Mr. Jansen told him. “If we got stuck here, I’d eat you. I’d have no problem with that.” The blind was a small dark hut with a flat tarpaper roof and a packed-dirt floor and two rectangular holes cut in the weathered boards. It sheltered us from the wind, and our huddled bodies seemed to warm it somewhat. “Ben Franklin wanted the turkey for the national symbol,” Lindy said. “Smart birds, no doubt about that,” Steve said. “Wily.” Mr. Jansen brought out the thermos of coffee. “How about a toast?” he said. My own silence was making me increasingly self-conscious, and I felt an old inadequacy, not joining in on the banter. “Whose property is this?” I asked. “Some union big shot in Detroit,” Mr. Jansen said. “Tennessee’s the caretaker.” “You wouldn’t think a couple of Democrats would go in for poaching,” Steve said. “But I guess turkey hunts make for strange bedfellows. Like politics.” I couldn’t follow the drift of his political beliefs, the precise arrangement of bigotries that he used to sort the world, but I raised my cup with everyone else. Lindy said, “To a big fat tom.” The coffee and the Scotch parted ways immediately, one warming my stomach, the other rising in a vapor to my head. “Daly,” Mr. Jansen said, “why don’t you set the decoy?” “Sure,” I said, glad for something to do, a small role. Outside the blind, the snow spun like shifting sand. I planted the decoy off to the left of the corn, driving the steel legs into the frozen ground. I squinted across the white moving expanse, and my eyes ached. Everything was either black or white, flat or upright, reduced to the stark lines of winter. I couldn’t believe this plastic turkey had a prayer, it looked so obviously counterfeit. I looked back to the blind, wondering if my snowsuit disguised me at this distance. Steve Rababy’s head was squarely framed in the window. His face was round and ruddy, blown up in some beefy sated English way. In the asperity of early winter, he seemed grossly overfed. “Who wants to call?” Lindy asked as I was crawling back in. “More important,” Steve said, “who gets first crack at him?” “I thought we’d let Daly have the honor,” Mr. Jansen said. “I think we should draw lots,” Steve said. “That’s tradition.” Before I could say, “Leave me out of it,” Mr. Jansen said, “O.K., choose a number between one and ten.” “Five,” Lindy said. “Three,” Steve said. I chose nine, and Mr. Jansen said, “Nine it is.” “Fuck you it’s nine,” Steve said. Mr. Jansen laughed heartily, while Steve removed his mittens and worked the call, rubbing the wooden slat over the box. A dry squawking was carried downwind from the blind. He waited a short while and then, leaning one ear to the instrument, like a violinist, gave the call another grating, followed by a couple of percussive clucks. The call was faint, unequal to the wind, the gusting snow. It sounded lost and weak, too plaintive, and it was hard to imagine the sort of hunger that would mishear these false notes. “With steel shot,” Lindy said, “you’ve really got to call them in. Killing range isn’t the same as lead.” “Use my gun,” Steve said. He blew on his freckled red hands. “I’ve got some old lead shot in there. I packed a couple of those babies last night.” “I don’t know about a 10-gauge,” Lindy said. “You get some extra distance, but you pay for it in recoil.” “I don’t like to be undergunned,” Steve said. Lindy said, “Choke matters more.” “That’s full,” Steve said. “Pretty tight. The pattern density’s fine at forty yards. I just tested it.” “What Steve’s doing,” Mr. Jansen explained, “he’s trying to imitate a hen and draw a gobbler out of the trees. He’ll keep calling until he gets an answer.” Steve said, “Right now I’m telling him there’s a chance for poon out here, so he’d better get his ass out of the woods while the gettin’s good.” He looked away from his post to see if I was listening. “After we spot him—way out there on the edge of the field—I’ll space out the calls. That’s my style. I like to let the silence draw the bird in. Turkeys are skittish—they’ve got amazing hearing and eyesight—but they’re curious, too, and that’s their doom.” “Killing range is anywhere inside forty yards,” Mr. Jansen continued, “but let’s try to hold off until Steve gets him to more like twenty.” “You’ll probably feel a little hot,” Steve explained, “and your face’ll flush. That’s turkey fever. But just recognize it and relax and breathe deep and blow out and squeeze. You don’t want to do what most guys do, you don’t want to flock shoot. Aim—aim for the neck and head, not the turkey.” Mr. Jansen lit a cigarette. He said, “You want to kill it without pumping the meat full of lead.” Steve coaxed a steady confab of calls out of the box, playing the wooden tongue back and forth. To my ears, the sound remained ugly and discordant, certainly not musical and harmonious in the way of the passerine birds, like finches or warblers, with their contralto trilling in spring. Mr. Jansen seemed content to be out early, away from the women, with a drink in his hand and plenty more in the flask. Lindy was crouched in the corner, sunk into himself. He’d showed no real animation since we’d arrived. “It wouldn’t do to eat the national symbol,” I said, trying to pick up the conversation where Lindy had left off. I felt instantly that I’d made an awkward, pointless comment. “Taboo,” I added, trying to cover myself. “Daly here is an R.C.,” Mr. Jansen said. “You eat your Saviour every Sunday,” Steve said. “Isn’t that what those crackers are?” “Beth Ann was Catholic,” Lindy said. He ran his finger in the dirt floor, drawing a cross. He pinched some of the dirt and threw it at the walls of the blind. “She wanted a Catholic funeral, and that’s what she got.” Steve Rababy and Mr. Jansen averted their eyes, staring vacantly at different walls, as if trying to keep the separate lines of vision from tangling. Lindy looked at each of us, a soft well of tears pooling in his eyes. He rubbed a thick mitten across his face. “I never converted,” he said, in a very small voice. “At the funeral, it was like a foreign language. They were saying goodbye to my wife, using words I didn’t understand.” “Get over it,” Steve said. He had stopped working the call, but now he leaned out the window, scraping the wooden tongue over the box. “That’s a little cold,” I said. “Well,” Steve said, “we’ve heard all this. We heard it yesterday and the day before and the day before that. We drove up goddam I-75 singing this song.” He aimed a hard stare at Lindy. “It was almost a year ago. It’s just sentimental bullshit at this point. It’s fucking weak.” “Take it easy, Steve,” Mr. Jansen said. He helped himself to another cup of hot coffee, cooling it with a measure of Scotch. “Everybody has their own time, Lindy most of all.” “She knew everything about me,” Lindy continued, as if he hadn’t heard Steve. “Everything.” Tears streaked shamelessly down a face that crying contorted and turned ugly, a squalling baby’s face that was not sympathetic in a grown man. “Now no one does.” “No one ever does,” Steve said. “You know, here’s your goddam marriage. All right? O.K.? Let me recap. For thirty-five fucking years I listened to you bitch and moan about Beth Ann. All right? Every afternoon at the bar, starting the day after you came back from your honeymoon. Five o’clock and I could fucking count on it. How she didn’t give it up enough, how she wouldn’t swallow, how she didn’t look young anymore, blah blah blah”—with each blah, he swiped a strident cluck from the call—“on and on and on. And now she’s dead and it’s like, mamma mia, she’s some kind of fucking saint.” “Lucy knows everything about me,” Mr. Jansen offered. It seemed a silly, conciliatory remark, not at all the kind of thing my wife’s father believed. Steve called him on it. “Yeah, right—I know more about you than she ever will.” Steve continued to scrape the call, but the wind had blown the horizon blank and there was no sign of a bird. “And both of you know a fuck of a lot more about me than Sandy does,” he said. “The way I see our marriage is, like, finally, after thirty-nine years, we understand we don’t understand each other. We finally got that cleared up. “Give me another drink,” he said, beating senselessly on. “She could give a rat’s ass about hunting—sitting out here in this box would seem stupid to her. “Forget the turkey,” he said. “I have a mind to shoot myself.” “Why don’t you,” I said. Steve barked a frantic, nearly hysterical call, working the tongue rapidly, like honing a knife against a whetstone. “You don’t like me, do you? You got a problem with me.” “Jesus, how’d we end up here?” Mr. Jansen said. “Let’s just everybody shut up for a minute.” Steve said, “There’s key shit Sandy doesn’t know and never will. Stuff about Katrina, and that whole saga, right?” He sniffed and spat through the window. “And yeah, every Friday about eleven, twelve o’clock you could always find Lindy’s car parked outside the massage parlor on Warren. Those Oriental girls, they look like teen-agers until they’re forty, eh Lindy? And you,” he said, turning on my father-in-law. “You—” “That’s enough, Steve.” “Hey,” Lindy said. “And you,” Steve said to me. “You obviously got some kind of fucked-up agenda—” “Look,” Lindy said. “Where?” Steve said. Moving against a low sea current of snow, a turkey, its narrow neck bent, came toward us, following the call. Lindy grabbed a spotting scope from one of the packs, adjusting the focus. “It’s got a beard and a half,” he said, passing me the scope. I slipped off my mittens. Steve worked the wooden slat in a new rhythm, as if mating the tempo to his excitement, locating the music of his desire. I looked through the scope and saw the turkey, its long straggling beard and chocolate-brown feathers and beady black eyes, narrowed in a heavy-lidded squint against the blowing snow. I passed the scope to Mr. Jansen and he slid the gun into my hand. We were all silent now, and even the smallest sounds—Lindy’s labored breathing or Mr. Jansen absently rubbing his thigh—seemed a gross and fatal intrusion. Steve let the call fall silent for a moment, and then resumed, and when he did we could hear for the first time the low guttural of the old tom’s response. The turkey drummed and strutted in what seemed to me like hesitation, and then, in a sudden dash, hurried straight toward the decoy. The gun had a satisfying heft, a weight in my hand that was exactly right. I raised the stock to my shoulder and looked with one eye down the barrel, arranging the red wattle neatly within the notched iron sight. In this snow the dark-brown bird was exposed, and I had a vague sense of understanding the risk it took, the declaration it was making. The tom’s beard blew in the wind, and he began to circle the hen, spreading his wings and fanning his tail. The bird puffed up to three times its size. It was a terrific display, cocky and proud and blustery and, I thought, soon to be irrelevant; my father-in-law gave a nod and I drew a breath and my mind went blank and I let go of the breath as I squeezed the trigger and nothing, nothing at all, happened. I went cold and, confused, stopped sighting the bird. Lindy said, “The fucking safety.” He grabbed the gun, raised it to his shoulder, and fired. A deep blast echoed and unrolled, just as the tom seemed to know it had been fooled. Instantly, the fan of feathers folded and the turkey collapsed. We rushed from the blind and gathered in a circle over the bird. The shot had been a good one; the turkey’s head was gone, and its neck was now hardly more than a hose filling a hole in the snow with blood. No one bent to touch it, as if this were the scene of a crime and we were waiting for some other, final authority to arrive. At last, Steve Rababy lit a cigarette and, covering his heart with his hat, gave the bird a brief eulogy. “He was looking for pussy and now he’s dead. Let that be a lesson to you liars.” Lindy offered a sentimental rephrasing, managing to work a trace of irony into his voice: “He died for love.” “Dinner,” Mr. Jansen said, putting his vast appetite where it belonged, before all. The shell had detonated inches from my ear. I worked a finger in it to clear the ringing. Lindy said to me, “I had to take your shot.” “I didn’t know about the safety,” I said. “That’s my fault,” Mr. Jansen said. “Let’s agree on a story,” Steve said. “Fine by me,” Lindy said. They looked at Mr. Jansen for ratification, and then he said, “O.K., we’ll say it was Daly.” After the high of the hunt, the rest of the afternoon had the long, languid feel of a Sunday. People kept up a compensatory busyness. Mr. Jansen plucked the bird in the garage and brazed the remaining nubs with a blowtorch. He wore an orange watch cap with a comical fur ball dangling from a string, and drank steadily from a cache of beers he’d buried in a mound of snow. Sandy Rababy worked a wooden spoon in a big pink bowl, and Lindy sat on the couch reading the newspaper. Caroline and Lucy discussed acting careers, my wife’s in particular, although now and then my mother-in-law offered an item of gossip she’d gleaned from the tabloids, re-stating fantasy and rumor as if they were fact. I listened, not so much to the content as to the lilt in my wife’s voice, the English phrasing in some of her sentences, a strange cadence that rose up, seeming to free itself, now and then, from her flat Michigan accent. She had an actor’s gift for mimicry, a hunger for imitation, absorbing the speech of others unself-consciously, and on several occasions in the past her affairs had chillingly registered for me first in a new sound, a surprising word in her vocabulary, a foreign inflection in her voice. Late in the afternoon, in guest mode, with no specific chore, I went for a walk. The trail I took led through a stand of white pine, ending at the lake behind the Jansens’ cabin. A diving raft was beached on the icy shore, and a string of rental boats was chained to a tree, each boat filled with snow, its gunwales whelmed by deep drifts. I felt as though I were seeing a sculptor’s rendition of my wife’s memories, a summer dream hacked into ice. The lake was fairly large, the surface sealed shut as though paraffin had been poured over it. I walked to the end of the dock. Below the ice, a blue sand pail and a yellow shovel from summer had sunk into the murk. Then I saw my wife out on the lake, perhaps half a mile from the dock, bundled in a shapeless red snowsuit. Her progress over the ice was painfully slow, as though she feared falling through, but then she was gone, and I heard a loon and tilted my good ear toward its call. Their cries make a haunting music on summer evenings, a tremolo you hear in the dark—eerie, because the two alternating notes mimic the sound of an echo, a call going out and then returning unanswered, a prayerful lament without a response. It was very late in the season to be migrating. The black bird was standing on the ice. Loons are ungainly, barely able to walk, achieving flight only after a long awkward struggle. In the air, they’re graceful and capable of flying sixty miles an hour. I watched until the bird rose up and the black speck, clearing the trees, dissolved like a drop of tint in the darkening sky. Trussed and displayed, our bird seemed to have been sitting on the table for ages, waiting for a banquet to begin. On either side of it, tall white candles flickered in a crosscurrent of the cabin’s many drafts, sending uncertain shadows over the table and lending a layer of depth to the setting. McIntosh apples were mounded in a bowl lined with yellow and brown satin leaves, and a wicker cornucopia at the opposite end of the table had been filled with Indian corn, as well as acorns and walnuts and filberts, gourds, sprigs of dried sweet william, figs, a pomegranate—the open mouth of it overflowing with the stuff of harvest. A basket of warm, glazed buns was wrapped in a white cloth, and a rich, earthy stuffing, steaming like a bog, was kept hot in a glass-lidded serving dish. China and silver settings had been brought north from Detroit, and there were goblets for both wine and water. With the pipes broken, water was the scarcer commodity. But there was wine. Two bottles had been uncorked and were breathing on the table, and six more sat on a sideboard, above which, on the wall, a large ornately framed mirror, slightly canted, held the whole scene like a still-life. Mr. Jansen poured wine for everyone, and then, as people settled into their seats, stood at the head of the table, flipping open the brass latches of a wooden box and pulling his carving knife and fork from a bed of red crushed velvet. He scraped the knife against a hone, crossing them above his head like a swashbuckler, and then, asking for silence, cleanly cut a first slice of white meat and placed it ceremoniously on my plate. The others clapped and cheered and stomped their feet, and I felt that my face must have reddened. I looked into the mirror and was able to see, as if I were hovering above the table, everyone but myself. “To Daly, after all these years,” Lucy said. “Here, here,” Steve and Lindy and Mr. Jansen all said together. The toast’s concluding ring of crystal rang dully in my right ear, still numb from the shotgun blast. We all drank in my honor, and then drank again when Steve, winking my way, rose to salute the turkey I’d shot. “I’m surprised,” Caroline said. “It doesn’t seem like you, Daly.” A gravy boat came down the line, and I ladled a thick, brown, floury paste over everything. “Yeah,” Lucy said. “Well . . .” I didn’t know what to say. Mr. Jansen jumped in. “Why not, Lucille? What, may I ask, is your idea of him?” “I don’t know.” Sandy answered. “More passive—not more passive, like, more a pacifist, I mean, a pacifist, not a killer.” “Oh, no,” Lindy said. “Not the killer conversation again.” “Hunting,” Steve said, cluing me in, somewhat vaguely, as he had with his politics. His assumption that we shared something unspoken only sharpened my resentment of him. “You eat, you can’t complain,” Mr. Jansen said. “But it’s true,” my wife said. “He’s a major bird-watcher. He keeps this stupid little book—I’m sorry, I don’t mean stupid. I mean . . . you know what I mean.” She paused, patting my forearm, and then, covering the awkward silence, continued. “You should have seen how excited he was the day he saw a pileated woodpecker in Central Park.” “I’ll show you a pileated woodpecker,” Steve said. “Oh, God, not that pecker conversation again,” Sandy yelled. “What’s the point of that, anyway, Daly?” Mr. Jansen asked, steering the conversation off the subject of sex. For a pleasure-loving, hard-drinking barfly, my wife’s father was surprisingly prudish. His face was flushed. He’d tucked a corner of his napkin into his shirtfront, like a little boy. He swivelled his head from side to side as the discussion jumped around, slashing his knife and fork in the air, as if he were trying to stab a word out of the conversation and eat it. “And what’s a pileated? That needs to be cleared up.” “What’s the point of what?” I asked stiffly. I was seated at the far end of the table, with everyone to my right, and I couldn’t keep pace with the conversation. I was beginning to think my eardrum was punctured. A warm fluid seemed to be leaking from it. “Watching birds.” Between the sound of his booming voice and my comprehension, there was a distracting lag, and the only replies I could make were serious and plodding, out of synch with the rising hilarity. “A pileum. It’s the top of a bird’s head.” “Don’t all birds have tops to their heads?” “Some birds are topless,” Lindy said. All this badinage was just crashing and piling up in front of me. It seemed really cornball and canned, but I couldn’t quite catch the tone and join in. I reached for my water and held the glass in my palm, cool against my skin. “Come again,” I said. “What?” Lindy said. “Huh?” “What—” I began, and then everyone at the table started in. “What? What?” “What? What? What?” “What?” “I’m sorry,” I said. “I can’t hear.” “Ah,” Steve said, “from the shotgun.” “Just in my right,” I said. Before I could refuse, Steve was standing beside me with his plate and utensils in hand. “Trade places,” he said. “That’s O.K.” “No, come on. You still got one good ear, right? Let’s switch. It’s no problem.” Stubbornly insisting on my seat would only have caused a scene at this point. “Maybe he doesn’t want to hear,” Lindy said. Sandy laughed. “Lord knows, he’s better off.” “Switch over,” Mr. Jansen said with a preëmptive wave of his knife. By the time I was seated again, the entire conversation had moved on. Caroline was playing with her food, and I wondered what she was thinking. The silver earrings S.J. had given her caught the firelight and flickered as she brought her hand to her lips. Something dropped on her plate, tinging loudly enough for all of us to hear. Her mother said, “I got one, too.” “Lead?” Mr. Jansen asked. “Me, too. That’s lead?” Sandy turned to her husband. “Isn’t lead illegal? That’s what you told me.” “Baiting turkey itself is illegal,” Steve said. “So whether or not we used a little lead didn’t seem to matter much.” Sandy looked at me, and I made an exaggerated shrug, absolving myself of any accessory role in the crime. “There’s nothing really wrong with it,” Steve said. “Except it causes brain damage,” Lucy said. “Well, don’t swallow any,” Steve said. Lucy said, “But won’t it taint the meat around it, too?” Sandy said, “The whole bird is poisoned!” “God damn,” Steve said. “I don’t like being reminded of this dead thing that was alive,” Sandy said. “That’s my other point. I for sure don’t like during dinner biting into the bullets that killed it.” “Those aren’t bullets, for fuck’s sake,” her husband said. “It’s just shot, No. 6 shot.” Sandy said, “I like to make believe my turkey was grown on a tree or bush.” “Yeah, well, it wasn’t,” Mr. Jansen said. “You liked that fancy squab in Paris plenty,” Steve said to his wife, working the hypocrisy angle that always seemed to crop up at the end of these discussions. It was as if the interminable debate—men on one side, women on the other—would end only when it swallowed its own tail. “You owed me that squab,” Sandy said. She was drunker than the rest of us, or less capable of hiding it. “You owed me that squab for fucking Katrina.” “Sandy,” my wife’s mother said. “Ten years. Ten goddam years.” Sandy reached for one of the bottles of wine that had been left to breathe on the sideboard. She rose from her chair and said, “You all just go out and hunt and sit around and swap stories. You all think it’s funny.” She walked unsteadily around the table. “And no one’s ever hurt and it’s all just stories. Ha ha. Oh, yeah.” She bent as if to kiss her husband on the ear. “I hate guns,” she said. “I hate guns. I hate guns.” She straightened up and looked over the table as if waiting for applause, and when none came she filled her glass, and then poured the rest of the bottle of wine over her husband’s head. His knife and fork were poised above his plate, and he smiled patiently as the wine dripped down his face. When the bottle was empty, he put a piece of meat in his mouth and chewed it slowly, then swallowed. No one said anything. “I could tell some stories,” Sandy said. “We can clean up tomorrow,” Lucy said. “There’s others,” Sandy said. Lucy insisted. “It’s bedtime for you.” Sandy put on a red union suit and climbed the ladder into her bunk, and we tried to resume dinner, but soon she was leaning over the edge of the bed, shouting down at us. “That’s the difference,” she said. “Go to bed, dear,” Steve said. “I want to tell you the difference!” “O.K.,” Steve said. “What’s the difference?” “You all have stories,” Sandy said. “And we have secrets.” “Good night,” Mr. Jansen said. “That’s the difference,” she said. Before bed, I walked across the Jansens’ drive and stood under the awning of the garage. It was snowing lightly. Firelight lit the cabin windows, and I could see my wife, standing at the kitchen sink, framed in an oval of frost where the glass was too warm to freeze. I fumbled with a book of matches as I watched her, this lovely woman carved like a cameo against the window. I was about to head back inside when Mr. Jansen joined me. “You want a light?” he asked, and suddenly the flame from a lighter flared in my face. He lit a cigarette and said, “What’s your problem with Steve?” My father-in-law’s face was gray with stubble, as if the long day had aged him. He looked tired and uncertain, and I wondered how he’d react if he knew the truth about his friends. This old man could be shattered with a sentence, but in the blind I had begun to lose my grip on the clarity of my dreams. I could no longer imagine the shape of my revenge, the loss I was trying to recoup, the pain I was trying to stop—Caroline’s, or mine. I had been jarred by the end of dinner, sad for Steve, which surprised me, and sad for Sandy—especially Sandy, the way she lived with the rankling knowledge that she existed in her husband’s affections as a thin anecdote, an illustration of his mediocre griefs. I didn’t want to become the sort of man Steve was, and I honestly believed at that moment, as I watched the snow curl around the cabin windows, that I would never tell my wife’s story, that her secret was safe with me. Mr. Jansen watched his daughter in the window, her face blurring behind a cloud of steam as she poured boiled water into the sink and began washing the dinner dishes. “It’s a tough haul, acting,” he said. “But she’s good, isn’t she?” “Better than you know,” I said. “I wouldn’t be so sure. I used to do some acting. That’s where her talent comes from. Someday she’ll be famous. She’ll be well known.” “You’re drunk,” I said. For a moment, he seemed to vacate his own face, leaving behind the hollowed eyes and nose and mouth of a mask. He stubbed his smoke in the snow and stumbled across the icy drive back to the cabin. A little while later, I came in, climbing the ladder to our bunk. I lay awake, listening to the subdued voices below. I remember only that my wife used the word “wanker,” and then for a while low whispers were skimming the surface of my sleep until, late in the night, toward dawn, really, I woke and found myself alone. My heart was racing, pounding with a familiar fear—that Caroline was gone and I would never find her. I hurried down the ladder and opened the cabin door. The temperature had dropped and the snow had glazed over with a sheen of ice. The thin crust cracked underfoot with a distinct breaking sound. I walked along the trampled path, shortening my stride to fit my feet into the frozen mold of previous footprints, losing myself in concentration. At the outhouse, I stood for a moment, listening. I called her name. There was no response, and I panicked, as you might in a dream where all your assumptions are not exactly wrong but irrelevant. Far off in the woods, a coyote yipped and howled, and others answered. I leaned my head back and watched the breath stream from my mouth and disappear. The bare winter branches of the alders tangled above my head like a web. Then some black thing raced into the trees in front of me, and I jumped. It crashed through the underbrush and was gone. The ground was pocked with fallen leaves and pine needles. Bare grass showed in the small circles of warmth beneath the sagging branches of fir trees. Everything that had moved in the woods over the past few days had left a record of its passing; the snow was marked with the tracks of hunters and birds and squirrels and deer and dogs, all the trails crisscrossing and weaving and intersecting, so that, if time were collapsed, you could imagine nothing but hapless collisions, a kind of antic vaudeville. Caroline opened the outhouse door. She wore only her nightgown. Her feet were bare. “You must be cold.” “Not really,” she said. “I mean, I am, but I’m going in.” We looked back through the woods to the cabin. A rope of gray smoke curled up through the chimney, rising, it struck me, out of my simplistic imagination. “You didn’t shoot that turkey,” she said. “How do you know?” She smiled and shook her head. “It’s just not you.” “I guess,” I said, although I resented the comment, the assumed familiarity. “I’d like to leave early tomorrow.” “I’m already packed,” she said. “I’ve got a big week coming up.” I held my breath and waited for the scripted words. “I got a part,” she said. “A detergent commercial, Monday. We’re shooting in Boston.” She was a good liar. She knew to look me directly in the eye. You can no more make someone tell the truth than you can force someone to love you. So that she wouldn’t have to pretend anymore, I nodded, releasing her gaze. “Who did?” she asked. “Did what?” “Shoot the turkey.” “Lindy,” I said. “I’m freezing,” she said. “I’m going in now.” I grabbed her by the shoulder, turning her toward me. She tried to shrug free, and I dug my fingers into her shoulders, tightening my grip until I felt bone roll beneath my thumbs. Her teeth were chattering, and she bit a crease of white in her lower lip, trying to stop them. She was trembling, and her frailty in the cold enraged me. I pulled her in close and then abruptly pushed her away, shaking and shoving until she fell back, breaking through the crust of ice the way children do, making angels. The deep powder closed over her face and her mouth was stopped with snow, and she lay still, her dark eyes staring vacantly up. She tried to rise, flailing her arms, and then, dreamily, she stretched out her hand, reaching for mine. I walked away, now trembling myself, but for some reason I turned, and when I did she called my name. I didn’t answer. She was standing by the outhouse, sunk to her knees in the broken drift, her hands clasping her shoulders so that she seemed to be embracing herself. Wind separated the ragged wisp of smoke from the chimney into several twining strands. Her long blond hair held the moonlight. Her nightgown billowed out, fluttering behind her, and she appeared to be hovering, almost drifting, as through water. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Roads of Home	In his rented beige Nissan, in a soft but steady November rain, David Kern exited from the Pennsylvania Turnpike at a new toll booth and was shot into an alien, majestic swirl of overpass and underpass. For some alarming seconds, he had no idea where he was; the little village of Morgan’s Forge—an inn, a church, a feed store—which should have been on his left, had vanished behind a garish stretch of national franchises and retail outlets. The southern half of the county, a woodsy stretch of rural backwardness when, soon after the Second World War, his family, at his mother’s instigation, had bought back the family farm, was now a haven for Philadelphians, who were snapping up the old stone farmhouses for weekend retreats. There were even, he had been told, daily commuters—more than an hour each way, but for them it was somehow worth it. For his part, fifty years ago, Kern couldn’t get out of the region fast enough. He felt lost. Then a rusted, bullet-pierced road sign in the shape of a keystone, naming Route 14, oriented him, and he pressed on the accelerator with a young man’s verve. He knew this road: the gradually rising straightaway, with Morgan’s dam down below on the right; the steep downhill plunge, heralded by a sign advising trucks to shift to a low gear, toward the creek that curled around the roofless shell of the one-room schoolhouse his mother had attended as a child; and then the sharp right turn, slowing you more than the car pressing behind you ever expected, onto the stony dirt lane, long since macadamized, that led to what had been, for a time, his home. He drove between the twin housing developments that had once been the Gengrich dairy farm and old Amos Schrack’s orchard, and from the crest saw what had been his family’s land. The meadow, low land once drained by stone-lined ditches that had been dug by his grandfather and great-grandfather, was no longer mowed; instead it was planted in rows of evergreens and birches for sale to landscapers. Beside it, quite buried in sumac and wild raspberry canes, lay the grassy road his mother used to walk, all by herself until joined by the Gengrich children, on her way to the one-room schoolhouse. There had been a towering tulip poplar beside the meadow which had survived into Kern’s middle age, as had his mother. She would tell him how, in warm weather, she would pause in her quiet walk beneath the tree’s big heart-shaped leaves, grateful for the shade and for the birdsong, subdued by the heat, in the branches. His vivid image of her as a little girl—her hair braided and pinned so tight by her mother that her scalp hurt, walking in her checked dress and matching ribbons down this lonely road between the fields—had been her creation, as she conjured up for him those days of paradisiacal country loneliness, of trusting animals and hazy silence. She had wanted to infect him, another only child, with her primal girlhood happiness, so that when he inherited the farm he would live on it. In the event, he had inherited it only to get rid of it quickly. The thirty acres on one side of the road, with the barn and house and chicken house, he sold to a cousin, and the remaining fifty, fields and woods, he rented to the neighboring farmers, the Reichardts, thus keeping the green space free of development, as his mother would have wanted. He had inherited as well her childhood bird guide, with carefully pencilled annotations and in the back a list of the species she had spotted on this farm—an index of her loneliness, this absorption in birds. One of her tales of herself recalled, with a trace of lingering grievance, how fiercely her mother had scolded her for climbing into a basket of freshly dry wash in imitation of a nesting bird. Kern, the absentee owner of fifty acres, felt guilty at the rarity of his visits. His career had taken him West. He had retired from teaching English at Macalester College, in St. Paul, and he and his wife, who hated the cold, had moved to Southern California. He drove past his old house with hardly a glance. The cousin had sold it, and then it had been sold again, to a Philadelphian, and renovated beyond recognition. Where sandstone stepping stones had once led the way across a lawn mostly crabgrass, a smooth circular driveway now enclosed a clump of shrubs in shades of green like a nursery display, crowded around a terra-cotta gargoyle. Kern’s mother’s many birdhouses, and her wind chimes on the back porch, were gone. He kept driving and pulled into the parking lot for the Reichardts’ produce stand. Their farm, one of the few surviving in the region, had prospered as the south of the county filled in with new customers. The Reichardts were pious people but not superstitious about keeping up with the times. Kern’s annual check was now printed by a computer; the simple shed that he remembered, with an awning and a few boards on sawhorses holding bushel baskets of peaches and apples, sweet corn, and string beans, had sprouted freezers and cash registers and supermarket carts and a sizable section of imported gourmet delicacies. Young Tad Reichardt, who usually dealt with Kern on his rare visits, was off with his family for a week at Disney World. “He goes every year, down to Orlando,” a girl at the cash register explained, in the friendly local style. “He says it’s never the same trip—as the children get older, they see different things. Now, you live near Disneyland, I understand.” “Miles from it. Miles and miles. I’ve never been.” “Oh. Well, Mr. Reichardt got your letter saying you were coming. He said I was to fetch his father when you did.” Though her hair was worn in a Mennonite cap, she pulled a cell phone from her apron pocket and deftly punched in numbers with her thumb, a trick all young people seem to have. Kern protested, “There’s no need to bother. I can see for myself. Things are going fine here.” “He’s here,” she announced into the tiny phone. Within a minute a member of Kern’s own generation, Enoch Reichardt, appeared, damp with rain and grinning widely. They had been boys together, on adjoining farms, but their attempts to play together had not been successful. Enoch, a year younger, had brought a softball and bat over to the Kerns’ yard—the Reichardts had no yard, all the space between their buildings was used for equipment and animals—and David, newly a teen-ager and not yet used to his own strength, had hit the ball far over the barn, into the thorns and poison ivy past the dirt road, next to the tumbledown foundation of the old tobacco-drying shed. The road in those days, before it was macadamized and straightened, swung closer to the barn, to the broad dirt entrance ramp, and then dipped downhill to run along the meadow, under the tulip poplar. Though the boys searched for a scratchy, buggy twenty minutes, they never found the ball, and Enoch never came back to play. But today, more than fifty years later, he seemed to bear no grudge, and Kern was happy to see someone nearly as old as he looking so well—stocky and tan, repelling the rain as if waxed. His grin showed straight white teeth. Enoch’s teeth had been crooked and brown and must have pained him for years. He asked Kern if he would like to see his fields, how they were being farmed. “It’s pretty wet out,” Kern said. “I think I get the idea.” He had arranged to meet two old classmates, with their spouses, at the Alton Country Club that evening, and was wearing a Burberry, a gray suit, and thin-soled black loafers bought at a Simi Valley mall. Enoch’s uncannily white smile broadened as he explained, “We’ll go in my car. It’ll take hardly a minute. There’s some new ideas around since you were here last. My car’s right outside. David, should I get you an umbrella?” “Don’t be silly,” Kern said. “It’s just a drizzle.” “Yes, well. That’s the way I look at it,” Enoch allowed. His car was a comforting relic—a black Ford sedan, with its chrome painted black. The former playmates slithered in. Not far along, on the edge of the enlarged parking lot, which even in this weather held a dozen customers’ cars and vans, stood the first of the new ideas—a kind of quonset hut of white plastic, upheld by arching ribs. “Remember how we used to grow strawberries?” Enoch asked. “How could I forget?” Strawberries had been David’s 4-H project, a means of making a few hundred dollars a summer toward his eventual college expenses. He and his mother had stood along the road selling them, to his intense embarrassment. Enoch braked. “Would you like to take a look inside?” David felt he had no choice, though the rain seemed to be intensifying and his Burberry was rain-resistant rather than rainproof. Enoch roughly, in his proud excitement, widened a gap in the white plastic, and David peeked in. He saw strawberry plants up on several narrow troughs, four feet off the ground, so that the berries, ripe in November, hung down into sheer air like cherries, like Christmas ornaments. “Aquaponic,” Enoch told him. “The plastic keeps the warmth in and allows for the solar effect; all the nutrients are trickled in from a hose. There’s no dirt.” “No dirt,” David numbly repeated. “Remember how the berries would rest on the ground and pick up sand? And the turtles and snails would nibble at them before they could be picked?” “And how your back would ache from straddling the row and bending over. The daddy longlegs would climb up your arms.” “No more,” Enoch said, pleased that David remembered. “You pick these standing up.” “Amazing,” Kern conceded, climbing back into the car, after checking the edges of his shoe soles for mud. Enoch wore thick yellow boots and a green slicker over denim bib overalls; he was one with the weather. He asked, “Would you like me to drive you over the big field?” “Sure,” David said. “If you won’t get stuck.” “I don’t think we’ll get stuck.” In farming the acres, and in selling to people who drove here and picked the fruits and sweet corn themselves, the Reichardts had laid out little roads, firmed up with spalls to check erosion, between the crops. Development, David thought. They drove, slightly skidding, among reserve lengths of PCP irrigation pipe, and dormant rows of strawberries grown through perforated black plastic, and several prefabricated shacks slapped up for the convenience of the summer trade. When the big field was under his mother’s management and lay fallow in clover and wildflowers, David used to mow it through a long August day on their old John Deere tractor, which he could drive before he could drive a car. Bought secondhand and painted mule-gray, the machine had crawled over the terrain gently rocking, dragging behind it the roaring rotary blade in its rusty housing. “Would you like to get out?” Enoch asked. The car had gone as far as it could. David looked down at his shoes, and solicitously thought of the crease in his suit pants. He had never been a guest at the Alton Country Club before. “Sure,” he said. He still owed Enoch that softball. They got out and stood together in the rain. A breeze made itself felt, at this high point of the hill. From here on a clear day you could see the tips of the tallest buildings in Alton, ten miles away. Today the city hid from sight. As Kern feared, the red earth was as gummy as clay. Transferring his feet from one patch of old-fashioned hay mulch to the next, he watched his steps so carefully that he missed much of Enoch’s friendly lecture on crop rotation, and on new varieties of corn that didn’t take so much nitrogen out of the soil. Soil, Kern thought, looking down. Ancestral soil, and to him it was just mud. He turned his attention upward, to the corner patch of woods that no farmer of these acres, for some reason, had ever bothered to cut, de-stump, and plow. Feeling his listener’s attention wander, Enoch said, with what seemed a twinkle but might have been raindrops in his eyelashes, “Your mother used to talk about how someday you might build a house up here.” David said, “Well, I may yet.” He couldn’t resist adding, with a wave over the irrigated and plasticized acres, “And make all this my front yard.” On the way back, sure enough, the Ford began to slew and wallow in a stretch of puddles a short distance from the paved road. But Enoch downshifted and the black Ford slithered free, and Kern was spared having to get out, in his delicate clothes, and push. He took away a gift, a paper bag of Enoch’s fresh apples. Heading north toward Alton, he moved from his mother’s territory into his father’s; he and his father, a schoolteacher, had daily driven together in this same direction, away from the farm to the region of schools, of close-packed row houses, of urban pleasures. Kern was staying the night at the Alton Motor Inn, in West Alton, but was in no hurry to get there—to make his way through a newly developed section of malls and highways sprung up in recent years. He turned off Route 14, past the Jewish cemetery and under the railroad bridge, into Alton, over a bridge that his father, out of work at the start of the Depression, had helped to build, hauling blue-tinged Belgian blocks and tamping them between the trolley tracks. The old man remembered that summer as pure misery, and his son never crossed the bridge without imagining drops of his father’s sweat as part of it, dried into the concrete. Kern’s bloodlines had left not just country traces. Alton was a dying city, but its occupants persisted in living. The ebb of its prime, which David located in his own boyhood but which his elders put earlier yet, before the Depression, had stranded a population that occupied the tightly built grid like sleepy end-of-summer wasps clustering in an old paper nest. Even in his boyhood the venerable industrial town had been prolific of what the child had thought of as throwaway men—working-class males whose craft or occupation had withered and left them with nothing to do all day but smoke cigarettes and wait for a visit to the local bar to come due. Driving through south Alton, Kern spotted them through the flapping windshield wipers, standing on tiny porches, watching the rain drip from the aluminum awnings and darken the composition sidings up and down the street. He drove on, into the wide center blocks of Weiser Street where the trolley cars would clang and pass, where the shoppers and moviegoers would throng, and where David, when his parents still lived a trolley-car ride away, would methodically wander through all the five-and-tens, from McCrory’s up to Kresge’s, looking to enlarge his collection of Big Little Books. At a dime apiece, it was possible, even on a thirty-five-cent-a-week allowance, to accumulate a sizable hoard. The five-and-tens all wore warm clouds of perfume and candy scent just inside the entrance doors, and some had pet shops, with canaries and parakeets and goldfish, at the back. Alton, it seemed to him then, had everything you could ever want in life. He had been told by Ned Miller, one of the few high-school classmates with whom he kept in touch, that Blankenbiller’s Department Store was being torn down, to make way for a new bank. A dying city, Kern thought, and they keep putting up banks. In the old days you couldn’t find a parking space on Weiser Street; now he slid into one without trouble on the Blankenbiller’s side of the square. Not just the grand old department store, with its wrought-iron cage elevators and overhead pneumatic tubes for the whizzing brass cannisters carrying change and receipts from a hidden treasury above, was being torn down: a row of buildings beside it, where Kern remembered shoes and office supplies and hardware being sold, had vanished, baring walls whose sloppy mortar had never been meant to show, and basement chambers, now filled with rubble, that hadn’t seen daylight for a century. Even in the rain, with daylight draining from the autumn afternoon, men were pecking away with their dolefully creaking front-loaders. His mother had once explained to him how she had gotten fat: she blamed Blankenbiller’s basement restaurant, where the apple or rhubarb or pecan pie à la mode had been irresistibly good, to top off a lunch when she was working in the Christmas season as an extra saleswoman. You got so tired, she explained, standing on your feet being gracious for ten hours; the ordeal had made her a food addict. Kern gazed down into the sodden, brick-strewn grave of his mother’s girlish figure, a figure he had glimpsed only as a toddler. It had been at Blankenbiller’s that, one day when shopping, he had let go of his mother’s hand and got lost, burbling to the floorwalker and wetting his pants. One of the city’s surplus men, curious as to what Kern was seeing, crept out from one of the few sheltering doorways left on Weiser Street. Kern winced in fear of being asked for a handout; but the man mutely stared with him through the chain-link fence. Kern’s father used to embarrass him, in the city, by talking to strangers; the more disreputable they appeared, the more enthusiastically his father seemed to regard them as potential sources of enlightenment. Kern had been a fastidious, touchy adolescent, but had slowly shed many of his inhibitions. Now he turned to the poorly clad, indifferently shaven stranger and attempted conversation: “Some hole, huh?” The man turned away, offended by such levity. He might have said “Yeah,” or said nothing at all, Kern wasn’t sure. The Alton Motor Inn and Function Suites sat slightly north of the river, where Kern’s mental map of the county gave out. North of Alton had always had a different, hostile flavor: the high-school kids were tougher, the industrial landmarks were bigger and darker, and the rich, who had made their millions off the dismal mills and quarries, lived on fenced estates well back from the highways. The geography was a tangle to Kern; confusing new highways sliced through former villages and sped shoppers to malls that were themselves becoming shopworn. Just after his mother’s death, without her to guide him, he had got lost on his way to the Alton airport to meet his children for the funeral. Though he now managed, after several wrong turns, to find the motor inn on its little rounded hill of asphalt, Kern was afraid he could not find, in the dark, in the rain, the Alton Country Club. The girl at the front desk, dressed in a mannish jacket, had tufty hair dyed in blotches of magenta. To her it was so obvious where the country club was that a few stabs of her pencil at a miniature map and a hurried recitation of several route numbers satisfied her that Kern was as good as there. Uncomprehending, but afraid of appearing senile, he docilely nodded and went to the room. His room, its picture window overlooking the muffled traffic of a mysterious cloverleaf, seemed a safe cave. But his classmates, in deference to their age and frailty, had urged an early dinner hour, so, instead of lying down on one of the inviting twin beds and turning on television, he unpacked his toilet kit, brushed his teeth, changed his tie to a more festive one, and tried to clean his muddy loafers with a wad of moistened toilet paper. Out in the parking lot, the controls of the rented Nissan still seemed foreign, the dashboard miniaturized and dim. There was an invasive sweet smell in the car: he had forgotten Enoch’s apples. Blazing streams of other cars were hurrying home; the county was not so depleted as to lack a rush hour. He was due at six, in just fifteen minutes. As Kern squinted to see road signs, the headlights behind him pressed mercilessly; those coming at him wore troubling halos of refraction. He had turned off at the route number the neo-punk girl at the hotel desk had written for him, but possibly in the wrong direction. Anonymous mills and storage tanks hulked on one side, with silhouetted conveyor belts and skeletal stairways; on the other, after a distance, a restaurant in an old limestone house advertised itself with a discreet white sign, and, closed for the winter, a driving range and miniature-golf course hurtled by. None of this was exactly unfamiliar—ages ago he and some boisterous friends had played among those windmills and tunnels, or somewhere similar—yet nothing told him exactly where he was. He was being punished: he had lived his formative years in the county while disdaining to learn its geography, beyond the sections proximate to his ego and his selfish needs. Now in revenge, the area manifested itself as a shapeless shadowy mire, experienced at a perilous speed. Then a sweeping searchlight straight ahead declared, he decided, the presence of the Alton airport. It was down to about two flights a day yet kept its lights on. But it seemed to be, if he remembered the hotel clerk’s sketchy indications, on the wrong side of the highway. Kern was beginning to sweat. He would never get there. The highway surround was thinning into countryside: distant isolated house windows, darkened low stores for carpeting and auto parts. He wanted to scream. He needed to urinate. At last, the broad glow of a combination Getty gas and 7-Eleven appeared. Yet the doughy woman behind the counter—the lone sentinel in a sea of darkness, wearing steel-rimmed granny glasses—seemed frightened of him, her only customer. He saw as if through her oval lenses his pink panicked face and wrinkled Burberry and California-style necktie, splashily patterned in poinciana blossoms. When he explained his disorientation, her face hardened; she appeared offended that he could have gone so far astray. “Go back the way you came,” she told him. “It’s after the airport. You passed it.” “How far after?” “Oh—a mile or so.” “On the right or the left?” These people, it occurred to him, did not want out-of-staters to make themselves too much at home. “On the left.” “Is there a sign or anything?” The woman mulled this over, continuing to size him up and keeping one hand out of sight below the counter, probably on the alarm button. “You’ll see it,” she grudgingly promised. “There’s two big gateposts.” And Kern did, ten minutes later, see the gateposts, very faintly, on the other side of the road. They might have been ghosts—spectral apparitions between beats of the windshield wipers—but his only hope of refuge lay between them. It was the worst kind of highway, a two-lane wanting to be a three-lane. The streams of traffic behind him and coming toward him looked endless; he braked in the center of the road and, as halted headlights piled up in his rearview mirror, he swerved into the oncoming lane. The lead car gave him a long blast of protest on its horn but braked enough to avoid the head-on collision that Kern’s heart had leaped up to greet. He was in. A tiny sign in a flowerless flower bed named the club. An allée of horse chestnut trees led him between two areas of darkness—golf-course fairways, he guessed. The clubhouse loomed, spottily lit. There was plenty of parking; it was a weekday night. He got out of the car. His eyes watered; his knees were trembling. Ned Miller was waiting for him in the foyer. “We were getting worried,” Ned said. “I had trouble finding it,” Kern told him, fervently gripping his old friend’s hand. “Then when I finally found it I nearly got killed pulling in. The guy who had to brake gave me a huge blast.” “That’s a bad left turn. You should have been coming from the other direction.” “I know, I know. Don’t rub it in. I’ll do better next time. Maybe.” Ned said nothing; both men were estimating that there might not be a next time. Ned had been, like Kern, a good student, but less erratically and noisily so. He spoke no more than he needed to, and talkative Kern, so excitable he sometimes stuttered as the words crowded in, had realized that Ned was his best friend only when he realized that silence was the other boy’s natural, companionable mode. Ned’s head was full of unvoiced thoughts; they were for him a reservoir of strength. He had become a lawyer, a professional keeper of secrets. The three other guests were seated at the table, their faces glamorously lit by glass-shaded candles. Ned’s wife was Marjorie, a firm-textured, silver-haired graduate of a different high school, north of Alton. Kern’s other classmate he had known as Sandra Auerbach, though she had long since married one of Ned’s legal partners, Jeff Lang. It must have been Ned’s sly, considerate idea to include the Langs, since Kern had, at a safe distance, loved Sandra all through school. It had taken no great imagination to love her—she was conspicuously vivacious, an athlete and a singer as well as the class beauty. He had heard, though, that she had fallen prey to various ills. He wondered if the aluminum walker tucked over by the windows was hers. Even as he gratefully took the place they had saved for him, beside Sandra, he observed that her face had been stiffened and distorted by some sort of stroke. Yet, since his love for her had been born in kindergarten, before sex kicked in, it was purely spiritual and impervious to bodily change. In his happiness to be next to her, he gushed, “Sandra, I had the most terrible time getting here, not knowing where anything is anymore. Not that I ever did. Furthermore my night vision isn’t that great. All the headlights had this rainbowy hair on them. In my panic I pulled right into the path of an oncoming car, and even in that split second I was thinking, Well, Stupid, you were born here, you might as well die here. Was the traffic always this bad?” She stared at him out of her stony, twisted face, and with a spasmodic motion lifted her hand toward his lips as if to touch them, to still them. “David,” she said carefully, “I don’t hear well. Speak more slowly, and let me watch your mouth.” Her hair, a silky chestnut-brown permitted some streaks of gray, was sleekly swept back; he saw that the socket of her dainty ear was daintily filled by a flesh-colored hearing aid. But her voice had kept its old quiet confidence; she had never had to shout to get attention. Except for her bust, spectacularly bloomed by the eighth grade, Sandra’s physical attributes were precise rather than emphatic; she was like a photograph slightly reduced to achieve an extra sharpness. Her nose had a barely noticeable bump at the bridge and her mouth a slight, demure, enchanting overbite. Kern’s lips tingled where Sandra had almost touched them. He slowly mouthed, for her eyes, the words “It’s won-der-ful to see you. I’m sor-ry I was late.” The general conversation sought its rhythm, and David, the returned prodigal, for a time was assigned the lead voice. But the questions he asked, the details he remembered, related to a few decades that for him had the freshness and urgency of youthful memories but that for his friends were buried beneath a silt of decades, of thousands of days spent in this same territory, maturing, marrying, childbearing, burying parents, laboring, retiring. He called across the table to Ned, “Remember how our mothers used to take us out once a summer to the Goose Lake Amusement Park, at the end of the trolley line? They would sit there,” he explained to the others, “side by side on a bench, while Ned and I went into the arcade and put pennies in these little paper peepshows that you cranked yourself—girls doing the hoochy-coochy in petticoats, all very tame, in retrospect. What the kids nowadays see, my God.” Decades of teaching had left him perhaps too fluent. He evoked aloud the long-gone trolley cars—their slippery straw seats, the brass handles at the corners to switch the backs back and forth at the end of the line, the serious-faced conductor with the mechanical changemaker on his belt. “Every child had to have one,” Ned chimed in. “As a toy.” “Exactly!” Kern agreed. He recalled aloud Ned’s old house—its abundance of toys, its basement playroom, its side yard big enough for fungo, and the slate-floored screened side porch where they used to play Monopoly for hours. Kern, a poor schoolteacher’s son, had envied that house, and intended to praise it. But he got the name of Ned’s pet Labrador slightly wrong, Blackie instead of Becky; Ned made the correction with an uncharacteristic, irritated quickness. Monopoly made Kern think of the canasta craze in their junior and senior years, those rows and rows of cards laid out on their parents’ dining-room tables, and asked if anybody could still remember the rules. Nobody volunteered. Marjorie Miller began to look glazed, and stated firmly that no one in her high school played canasta; it never spread, she insisted, to this part of the county. Deferential waiters, meanwhile, took orders and brought food. They kept calling Ned “Mr. Miller” and Sandra “Mrs. Lang”; only Kern went unnamed, the club outsider. He had his own clubs, far from here, but had he stayed he could never have made the Alton Country Club; there was no road for him up into it. As, feeling the fatigue of his day’s adventures, he fell relatively silent, his companions lapsed into local talk—the newest mayoral scandal in Alton, the hopeless condition of the downtown, the misfortunes (illnesses, business misjudgments, ill-advised second marriages) of mutual friends. Kern thought that Sandra kept up with the conversation pretty well, her calm gray-blue eyes darting from mouth to mouth, her own lips opening in a frequent laugh. When she laughed, the gleeful pealing, a bit shriller than expected, sounded a chord in Kern’s head first heard during recess at elementary school, on the little asphalt lake around the old red brick building, strictly divided into boys’ and girls’ sections. Her voice, though not loud, could be heard over those of all the other girls at play. He must have been listening for it. The waiters—two of them, for this was a light night—stood ready, in their pleated shirts and striped bow ties, to take orders for dessert and coffee. The group looked toward Kern, and he said what he sensed they wanted to hear: “I don’t need anything. It’s late for us old-timers.” There was a babble of grateful agreement, and a pronged fuss of gathering coats and umbrellas. Sandra used her walker, but as if it were a plaything, swinging it jauntily ahead of her. Outside, the rain had stopped, and Kern could see off to the left a shadowy green, with its numbered flag still in the hole, ready for play if November relented. On the glistening driveway, they shook hands and hugged goodbye. He and Sandra studied each other’s face a second, trying to decide between a kiss on the cheek or on the mouth; he decided on a cheek—as it happened on the side somewhat paralyzed. Backing off, he said, “Take care. You’re the best.” Not sure the lamplight was strong enough for her to read his words, he absurdly gave her a thumbs-up, and blushed. Marjorie, hugging him almost too firmly, said, “We’re all in one car; you follow us. We don’t want you getting lost again.” “Oh, I don’t think I will. I just do the same thing backwards, more or less. Don’t go out of your way. Ways.” “David. You follow us.” The four had come in a big midnight-blue S.U.V. belonging to the Langs. Marjorie’s silver hair flashed in the back seat; Sandra’s tidy profile sank into shadow beside her. Women rode contentedly in the back seat here. Jeff Lang’s tail-lights led Kern down the long, hushed double row of horse chestnuts; at the highway, after a wait for all traffic to clear, the tail-lights turned left, away from the airport, then right at the restaurant in the limestone house. Almost immediately, they were moving down narrow city streets. They had been on the edge of Alton, all along. What was I doing way out at the airport? Kern asked himself. This section of the city was strange to him. Lone pedestrians flitted warily across the rain-stained streets. The glowing windows of laundromats, delicatessens, and corner taverns slid by like the illumined spectres and tableaux in the water ride at the Goose Lake Amusement Park. Some of the signs were in Spanish. The S.U.V., seeming almost to brush the parked cars on either side, led him first downhill, and then up. Continuing uphill, the street smoothly became a strange bridge, high above the black river. It descended on the other side into blocks where gaunt semi-detached houses were approached up long flights of concrete steps. The two-car caravan came to a traffic circle near a large parking lot, with a garish state-run liquor store on one side, and Kern at last knew where he was: in West Alton. He and his mother used to come to West Alton from the trolley stop in front of Blankenbiller’s for his piano lessons with—yes, of course—Miss Schiffner. Thin, wan, wistful Miss Schiffner, perhaps once beautiful in her way, had he not been too young to notice. Concrete steps covered by green outdoor carpeting led up to her front parlor, where the upright piano waited amid doilies and porcelain figurines and dusty plush. Its white-and-black teeth were cold to touch, with his nervous hands. The keyboard had a right-angled lid that came down after the lesson, protecting the keys against dust. The trolley car at its stop—there had been no traffic circle then—would unfold a step with a harsh clack and David, leaping down, jarred the sour dread in his belly at not having mastered his lesson. This was before their move to the country, the beginning of his exile. His mother was still a city dweller, still banking on civilization, handing over precious Depression dollars in gullible hopes of lifting her son up from the ruck. It was clear to him and must have been to Miss Schiffner that he was no little Mozart, standing on tiptoe to tap out his first minuet. Jeff Lang’s smug ruby tail-lights continued halfway around the traffic circle, passed the liquor store, and headed up Fourth Street, toward the old textile mills that had been reborn as discount outlets and then had gone empty again, as the busloads of Baltimore bargain hunters went instead to the outlets near Morgan’s Forge. It came to Kern that behind him, one block over from Fourth Street, there used to be an all-night diner where he, in no hurry to get back to the farm, would go alone after dropping off his date at her house. After a school dance, he would go with a gang of others, all the girls wearing strapless taffeta dresses if it had been a prom, their naked shoulders shining in the booths. Each booth had its own little jukebox, with “Stardust” and “Begin the Beguine” and Russ Morgan’s “So Tired” among the selections. If Kern went there now, he could get a piece of Dutch apple pie with a scoop of butter-pecan ice cream, to make up for the dessert he had missed. He wanted to reverse his course, but the Langs’ tail-lights inexorably receded, waiting at every intersection for him to catch up. He couldn’t believe it: they were going to lead him like some moron right to the parking lot of the Alton Motor Inn. In his head he shouted furiously, I know where I am now! I’m here. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Ice	The drum major lived a short distance from my house and could sometimes be seen sitting pensively on his porch wearing his shako—a tall truncated cone of white simulated fur, with a strap that cut across his chin—while folding the Free Press for his paper route. I was reluctant even to wave to him, since this was a time in my life when my greatest worry—originating I have no idea where—was that I was a hopeless coward. Although we saw each other nearly every day at school, the greetings I had offered the drum major in the past had fallen on deaf ears, and I had long since given up on the idea of getting any sort of response from him at all. I did the route for the News, a competitor of the Free Press, so it wasn’t surprising that the drum major and I didn’t speak. But after he scored 156 on a school-administered I.Q. test, and then, one September day, single-handedly captured an awol sailor by boldly shouting, “Halt!,” and escorting him to the brig at the nearby base, I began to study him in a fixed and admiring way. I imagined that he might somehow hold the key to escaping my cowardice. I delivered papers in the evening from my bicycle, and as the year grew late I was often overtaken by my fear of the dark. I had a recurrent fantasy of a muscular ostrich pursuing me in the night and pecking through my skull into my brain—a terror that stemmed from my first and only trip to the zoo. Whenever I contemplated my fears, that ostrich figured in my reflections as a kind of emblem of my spinelessness. I always delivered my papers as promptly as possible; the drum major delivered his whenever he felt inclined to do so. One afternoon in early October, he unexpectedly chose to address me; he accused me of trying to make him look bad by getting my papers onto people’s porches and lawns before his. When I tried to respond, he cut me off and directed me to wait until his papers had been delivered before delivering mine. I complied with his instructions, tossing my papers onto lawns at all hours and dodging any customers who tried to complain. At school, I watched to see whether the drum major had the same effect on others as he did on me, but he was always alone. I went out of my way to watch him practice on our school’s big, wind- and sometimes snow-blown football field, where he would strut toward the goalpost trailing a stingy cape and twirling his baton, his white shako tilted back rakishly, until the time came for the blissful high toss and recapture of the spinning chrome-plated baton, preferably without getting beaned in the head by one of its white rubber tips. At game time, when he led our cacophonous marching band in its disordered frenzy, the entire drama hung on his ability to catch that baton—what should have been one small gesture became the centerpiece of an otherwise lurching rigmarole. There was something about the drum major’s haughty gait and his seeming disconnection from the confused uproar of the band behind him that mesmerized me, although the band, with its modest and unattractive demeanor—the players wore threadbare maroon uniforms with gold piping and were led by a hugely overweight youngster who did a Grambling-style shimmy while flogging his glockenspiel with felt hammers—was more attractive to the rest of the crowd, some members of which threw horse chestnuts at the drum major, whom they regarded as stuck-up. Drum majors back then were on the verge of being replaced by “majorettes,” and a position that had once been considered honorably athletic had become somehow effete and clouded with unspoken sexual ambiguity—although that ambiguity hadn’t yet managed to taint our own drum major, whose pert and blossoming girlfriends all seemed to wind up losing their reputations. Nevertheless, the crowd hoped for humiliating disaster. I, strangely, hoped for his success. I waited for that high toss to produce, as if by the hand of Praxiteles, the most graceful division of space, a split second of immortality for the drum major, and, for me, a lesson in courage. At the same time, another part of me shared the crowd’s wish to see him on all fours with the baton up his behind. As would become a lifelong habit for most of us, we longed to witness both spectacular achievement and mortifying failure. Neither of these things, we were discreetly certain, would ever come to us; we would instead be granted the frictionless lives of the meek. Our school played Flat Rock on the last Saturday of October and winter was already in the air, the trees shabby with half-shed leaves. I was shivering in the crowd on the rickety, exposed bleachers, watching our band wheel onto the field. When the drum major at last tossed the baton, it fell so far behind him that he had to dash into the band to retrieve it. Too late, he was swept aside, forced to stand, hands on hips, until the musicians had passed, revealing his baton on the ground, twisted like a pretzel. As he crouched to pick it up, the baying crowd was beside itself. With a sense of fearful liberation, I joined it, my community. In that uproar, I was briefly free of fear. I thrilled to the courage of the mob. Still, it wasn’t quite the courage I was looking for. The following week, the drum major seemed even more isolated at school, though, as always, he appeared content with his solitude. Mrs. Andrews, the beautiful young wife of our thuggish football coach, who had renounced her own remarkable athletic skills to teach us history, made a special effort to console him; I remember how gently she bent beside his desk to correct his work while, across the aisle, Stanley Peabody, with his flattop haircut, pegged charcoal pants, and Flagg Flyer blue suède shoes, attempted to look down her blouse. Mrs. Andrews, with her shining auburn hair and her single strand of imitation pearls, was accustomed to being ogled, and Stanley was little more to her than a name on the roster taped to her desk. Her attention to the drum major was all the more surprising for the fact that she had hardly looked at him in weeks. I was a great observer of any and all interactions between the drum major and Mrs. Andrews. At that point in my life, virtually everything around me seemed scarlet with erotic undertones, and for months now I had suspected that a relationship existed between our history teacher and the drum major—a quiet and subtle relationship, which had nothing to do with the smirking of the other boys in the class. Their behavior, I knew instinctively, amounted to nothing more than an adolescent salute to Mrs. Andrews’s lovely figure. The drum major, on the other hand, gazed at Mrs. Andrews with a sort of calm arrogance that seemed to intimate possession, and which only grew stronger as rumors spread through the class. Mrs. Andrews, meanwhile, had become increasingly timid with the drum major, rarely addressing him directly, and it was with a kind of flourish that she finally called on him in class one morning. “What,” she asked, casting her eyes over the top of his curly brown hair—the tension in the classroom had reached the point where she could no longer look straight at him—“was the principal result of the Crédit Mobilier scandal?” Stanley Peabody leered broadly at this resumption of contact. His sidekick, Boley Cardwell, a prematurely wizened teen with lank blond hair cascading over his forehead, grabbed his crotch surreptitiously and rolled his eyes in feigned ecstasy. Legs stretched in the aisle and crossed at the ankles, fingers laced behind his head, the drum major said, “You tell me.” He had the affectless James Dean look down pat. An electric silence filled the room: this was clearly a bit of amorous badinage disguised as classwork. Mrs. Andrews’s face colored. The drum major seemed to have her just where he wanted her. “Perhaps,” she said, “you feel I have asked you the wrong question.” “Could be.” “In that case, why don’t you pose a question for the class, based on this week’s reading?” The drum major leaned forward, dropped his elbows to his knees, drew his feet back under his chair, and held his head for a moment before looking up. He said, “Who is buried in Grant’s tomb?” By the end of the day, he was the most important boy in school; people lingered to watch him pass in the hallway and gave him plenty of space at his locker. Mrs. Andrews added girls’ physical education to her teaching load, and from then on she seemed always to have a whistle around her neck. She moved with a new formality, even when teaching history. While Stanley Peabody and Boley Cardwell headed a small group that gathered in the bleachers to watch the girls run wind sprints, the drum major sat apart, focussing on Mrs. Andrews. On coed gym days, her husband, Bud Andrews, was also on the field, coaching the boys, a classic phys.-ed. instructor in sweats and a severe crewcut that bared his scalp on top. One cold, dark afternoon when the windows of the gym were silver with reflected light and the air was sour with sweat, Coach Andrews suddenly sprang into the bleachers, lifted the drum major into the air, and shook him like a rag doll. The drum major managed to retain his smile even as his head was flung about. Coach Andrews was suspended from his job and would never have been reinstated if it weren’t for the generally held view, among the faculty, that there was something fishy about the drum major. To avoid further misunderstanding, a tutor was hired to help him complete his history requirement, though everyone agreed that Mrs. Andrews could hardly be held responsible for her husband’s freak-out. I spent my paper-route earnings on small things—an imitation Civil War-era forage cap, a British commando knife, steel taps for my shoes, muskrat traps. I briefly fell prey to a magazine-coupon swindle whereby I tried to win the baby monkey whose huge eyes dominated the advertisement. But, as I fell behind in my payments and began to doubt whether the monkey would ever be shipped, I switched programs and wound up with a much cheaper flying squirrel, which bit me savagely and flew around our basement for two days before escaping through the window. My father said, “Next time you’ve got ten bucks to spare, don’t throw it away on a squirrel.” My luck changed when, while digging up a jack-in-the-pulpit as a gift for my mother, I discovered an old brass compass, which I imagined had once belonged to the voyageurs, Jesuits, Recollets, and their various bands of Potawatomi, Wyandots, and Hurons. That compass was always in my pocket, a talisman, the one thing that stood between me and the dreaded unknown. By this time, I had recognized that fear was the defining feature of my life. My mistake lay in believing that I was unique in this. Still, I had gone back to delivering my papers on time; I had envisioned this as a test of my mettle, but the drum major seemed to have forgotten all about me. He said nothing. I dreamed of becoming a warrior or a big-game hunter. If I was going to prove myself, I would need a real trial. In January, Lake Erie froze nearly to Canada. One evening, standing before its ominous expanse in my ice skates, with a wool cap pulled over my ears and a long scarf wound around my neck and crisscrossed over my chest beneath my blue Navy-surplus pea jacket, I left the shore. I planned to face down the spectre of my fear by going as far as I dared toward Canada, or the Livingston ship channel if the icebreaker had been through. I hoped that my love of skating would propel me through the worst of my worries. I struggled over the corrugations of the shore ice, and then ventured onto smoother, glassier terrain that rewarded me with long glides. I could see bubbles below me, and the white bellies of upended perch and rock bass. I began to dream of landing in Canada, on that foreign shore from whence, according to Mrs. Andrews, the redcoats had once launched sorties against our Colonial heroes. I began to imagine a visit to the old British fort at Amherstburg. I would skate home with tales of imperial ghosts and whatever other secret existences I might discover in those places where only the most courageous ventured. I would tell Mrs. Andrews what I had done. These dreams enlivened my skating, and I raced on, stroke after stroke. One day, years afterward, I would come to view this night as the template for the many disasters I later created for myself, but, at the time, risking my life in the gathering darkness on a day when I had cowered at the thought of a paper cut or an infected pimple produced no awareness of contradiction. I felt only the allure of the hard, perfect ice, cold-snap ice unblemished by wind during its formation. It was impossible for me to imagine the drum major out here in his shako like an animated Q-tip—there would be no prancing among the crows and ice-killed fish for him, I gloated. I kept going. If I turned back, I told myself, if I let the falling dark turn me back, I would never be any good and the fog of cowardice would envelop me forever. The ice seemed to rise before me and disappear into the twilit sky, as though they were one and the same. The lights that had shone briefly on the shore were gone now, and I had yet to see my first Canadian light or the outlines of the fort. I reached for the old compass in my pocket. When I stopped to reconnoitre, I felt the cold penetrate and I adjusted my scarf. It was time to go home, and I knew it, but I couldn’t leave at the first wave of panic. I would press on into the blackness just long enough to prove that it was I who had elected to return and not those forces which were always rendering me worthless in my own eyes. Such thoughts produced an oddly inflexible gait in my skating; I reached my feet stiffly through a space that I couldn’t confirm with my eyes. Suddenly, the sound of my blades, which had seemed to fill the air around me, was replaced by another, more murmurous tone, like a church congregation heard from afar. I was gliding toward the sound when a vast aggravation of noise and physical turbulence erupted and a storm of ducks took flight in front of me: it was water. The lake heaved a gloomy sigh, and I found myself, after some minutes of agitated effort, almost at the edge of the ice. I skated off in a panic, and when I was once more standing squarely on black ice I stopped and recognized that I was lost. A step in any direction and I could drown in freezing water. I was becoming claustrophobic, too—I had an incongruous sense of airlessness, as though I’d been locked in a windowless room. I knew that I was going to die. I lashed out first at my own entangling fantasies—the hated redcoats, the pursuing ostrich—and then at death itself. My bowels began to churn, and I squatted on the ice with the pea jacket over my head, my pants around my knees. I recited the Lord’s Prayer in a quavering voice. I was answered: a deep, rhythmic throb gathered slowly into a rumble. A light emerged from the blackness in front of me, followed by several others, until they formed a line streaming toward me like comets. Then, just as the sound was at its most intense, an enormous black shape rose before me, causing the ice to groan. It was not the god I had expected. The lights streamed away and all was silent again. A freighter bound for Lake Superior. I extracted the compass from my pocket and began to bargain with death. It took some concentration to rotate the battered brass case until I had north pinned down; then, staring at the cloudy glass held almost under my nose, I began to skate as rapidly as I could, placing all my faith in the ornate “W.” I moved fast on the cold mirror beneath me, creating my own wind, knowing that if the compass was faulty after all its years in the ground I would skate straight off the ice into a world from which I would not return. But a kind of faith conveyed from the freighter god to the compass kept me peering into my cupped hands as I pressed on with all I had. In a short time I could make out some shapes in my path, fishermen’s shanties—a series of small houses positioned over round holes spudded through the ice, through which the occupants could angle for perch or hang for hours, iron spear in hand, to await the great pike, drawn to them by a hand-whittled wooden perch decoy. By night, these shacks were all deserted. But one shanty revealed a flickering light, and to it I attached all my hopes. At its door, I made out voices, and I stopped before knocking. They were voices from my classroom, and I listened, as if dreaming, to what sounded like a quarrel. First, the drum major, his voice cocky, bantering. The other seemed to plead and whimper, and was, of course, Mrs. Andrews. And then there were different sounds, less precise than words. I skated off as silently as I could, afraid that if they caught me they would have to do something terrible to me, whether they wanted to or not. I had no business knowing what I knew. I hit land a long way from where I’d put on my skates, and I was obliged to traverse a considerable distance tottering on my blades across pickerelweed and pebbles, waving my arms for balance, while thanking everything around me for the continuation of my days on earth. But, in a scrap of tangled beech woods, my pious thoughts soon crumbled beneath a lurid, new vision, something as dark as the woods around me. It was as if, as I conquered one fear, another had risen to take its place—even more daunting than the last. Light from the small houses that lined the narrow road to the shore made wild shadows in the leafless trees. I heard dogs barking behind closed doors, and one homeowner let his beagle out while watching me from his doorway. I tried to manage my movements, but there was no way to walk normally, nor any way for an observer to see that I was wearing skates. The beagle approached to within ten feet of me and sat down, emitting a single reflective bark as I passed its lawn. The owner remained in the doorway and watched me pass in silence. I gave him a little wave, which he didn’t return. I didn’t go on the ice again that winter. It seemed that there were better things to do. As the days grew longer, I often saw the drum major, starting his paper route as I got home from mine. We didn’t speak, but my customers got the News on time. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
THE JUNIPER TREE	THE JUNIPER TREE The New Yorker, January 17, 2005 P. 76 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a woman who goes with her friends to visit another friend who has just died. They visit her at her house, and she's there; it’s something of a ghost story… The night Robin Ross was dying in the hospital, I was waiting for a man I was dating to come pick me up to see her-a man she had once dated. When he came, I suggested it might be better to visit her in the morning… The next morning I dressed in orange and gold. ZJ called as I was heading out the door to see her. “Don't bother. She died late last night.” I went upstairs and got into bed. It was dark again when I woke to the sound of my doorbell. There stood Isabel, her left coat sleeve dangling empty, and Pat. “We've got the gin, we’ve got the ricky mix,” they said. “Come on. We’re going to go see Robin.” “I thought Robin died.” Pat made a face, “Yes, well,” she said. “But she’s back at home, expecting us. You know women and their houses.” Pat had had a massive stroke two years ago. Periodically, her wounded brain cast about desperately and threw on a switch. “Maybe we drink too much gin,” I said. “Are you referring to the accident?” said Isabel. A car crash had severed her arm… Isabel drove, one-armed, to Robin’s. The house was dark when we arrived. Robin had planted the yard with trees from fairy tales: apple, juniper, hazelnut. “The key’s under the mat. Don’t turn on the lights,” Isabel said. Out stepped Robin, looking pretty much the same, though with a white scarf around her neck. “You came,” were her first words, directed at me. “I missed you at the hospital.” Her smile was tight and judging. “I am so sorry,” I said. “That's O.K. It was a little nuts.” “We wanted to each present you with something,” said Pat. Robin looked at me, “Always a little out of the loop, eh?” Pat handed her a small canvas. “A painting I made for you.” It was nothing but a plain white blank. “And I have a new dance for you,” said Isabel, and stood up and instead recited poetry. I stood up. “It's been a terrible month. First the election, and now this.” I sang “The Star-Spangled Banner,” turning it into a protest and a question. “You never sing enough,” Robin said, then added, “Now I have to go.”… “Well, I'm glad we did that,” I said on the way back home… The last time I saw Robin well, she’d invited me over. The man we had both dated was seeing another woman, a yoga teacher. “She's probably just really good in bed,” Robin had said. Robin had made a lemon meringue pie for desert, but I was full. I was wearing orange and gold, and she told me they were good colors for me. Then she suddenly pushed the pie onto her own face. “I've always wanted to do that,” said Robin. “There’s no business like show business,” I said. “Everything is appealing,” she said. “Brava,” I said, finding my keys. “Now I'm out of here.” “Of course,” she said. “Onward.” View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Reading Lessons	The first time Danielle remembers ever being aware of her breasts was when she was thirteen and her mother told her to rub crushed butterflies on them to make them grow. Not already dead butterflies but live ones, plucked from flower petals by her own hands. Saturns were preferable because it was easy to tell the pale females, which she needed, from the darker males, which she did not. Swallowtails and other species with black spots were considered unlucky. And she was not, no matter what, to mistake a thick-antennaed moth for a butterfly, for if she rubbed a poisonous moth on her dot of a nipple not only would she get a rash but she wouldn’t see another centimetre of growth for the rest of her life. She was already an expert lizard hunter—she preferred the kink-tailed ones to any other kind—so the butterflies proved to be easy prey, but because she was used to more struggle than they were capable of she’d sometimes press too hard. Either their wings would crumble, leaving a fine, sticky dust under her fingernails, or the butterflies would simply fall apart and she’d pile the corpses in a jar, a kaleidoscopic, see-through mausoleum, too horrifying to keep in her mother’s cosmetics cabinet yet too beautiful to discard. The day her mother was shot by a young man no older than Danielle—a classmate of hers, according to some witnesses—as she was coming home from her textile shop, Danielle simply uncovered her jar of butterflies and threw its contents to the two iguanas she kept in a small cage in her parents’ bamboo-hedged, hibiscus-lined garden. And, because she’d taken her mother’s advice, her breasts did grow, so much so that, years after she had left adolescence and left Haiti with her father and was working as a first-grade teacher at a small experimental school in Miami’s Little Haiti, she discovered in the shower one morning a chestnut-size lump in one of them, the right one, which seemed to have bloomed overnight, as if her mammary glands had been soaked in a butterfly bath while she slept. She had told the story of her mother and the butterfly potion to the two Haitian women who showed up in her classroom that very evening to learn to read. Surrounded by hand-drawn maps of their Little Haiti neighborhood, real maps of what Danielle and the kids called Big Haiti, a globe that showed the whole world, and drawings made with parents and refrigerator doors in mind, both women sat stiffly in the adult desks towering over the children’s bureaus, which, for the evening, had been pushed to the outer corners. Danielle had been drafted to teach one of the school’s so-called twilight literacy classes after the principal, her clandestine boyfriend of two and a half years, came up with the idea of helping the students by giving the parents a taste of the American educational system. The school had a ninety-nine-per-cent Haitian student body—the one “foreign” boy had, like the school’s principal, been born of Haitian parents in Burundi—so she expected the same of her evening class. She was dreading her first moments before the Creole-speaking mothers and fathers, who, unlike their children, wouldn’t simply look up at her with helpless glee but would rate her on things that she suddenly found difficult to conceal, like her rapid loss of enthusiasm for her job, or her growing discomfort at keeping a secret that could be either harmless or devastating. Before the two women had shown up, she’d been thinking of just going through the motions, replicating with them some of what she attempted from morning to afternoon with their kids—the alphabet singsongs, the vowel and consonant drills, the color charts, the math demonstrations with Popsicle sticks. She might even repeat for them some of the questions the children constantly asked: What is a refugee? Why do my parents need money? What is a bouzen? What is a vagabond? Every once in a while, she planned to tell the parents, she was delighted when a child made a more puerile inquiry: How does a kite fly? How does an airplane stay up in the air? Where are my tears hiding when I’m not crying? When forty-three parents enrolled for the classes, two of whom Principal Boyfriend, as Danielle liked to call him, quickly discovered couldn’t read in any language at all, he bypassed his small group of eager recent Ed-school graduates and deposited the two, for more intimate instruction, in her care. Besides, he pointed out, each had a child in her class. The younger parent, Fania, a willowy woman in a sleeveless crimson dress, was mother to Vanya, a scrawny girl whose hair was always braided in what seemed to be a hundred yarnlike plaits, each individually fastened with a different-colored barrette. Vanya’s barrettes reminded Danielle of the flecked aphids that had invaded her mother’s garden during the summer months of her childhood, sucking the moisture out of her banana trees until they were drier than paper. Lorvane, a strapping, stoic-looking, blue-uniformed hotel maid, had three children at the school. One of them was indeed Danielle’s pupil—Paul, a restless, rambunctious boy, who at the beginning of the year had lost two front milk teeth that still showed no signs of being replaced by adult ones. “What’s in this for me?” Danielle had asked Principal Boyfriend when he’d playfully dangled a time sheet in front of her that afternoon. “Aside from the extra money?” He still had the same French accent, he’d told Danielle, with which he’d spoken since he left Burundi at sixteen. “Of course, the endless satisfaction of being a miracle worker, of making the blind see.” There were times when his projects annoyed her so much that she thought she might hit him, not hard and not often, just once. But there were also times when she found herself feeling grateful to him, for even as he orchestrated his grand pedagogical schemes he never overlooked the details of her own life. He’d signed her up to teach that class, for example, as if he knew exactly what she would need that evening: not to be alone in their vast yet sparsely furnished Brickell Avenue condo, staring into a mirror, prodding anxious fingers at her flesh. Her two evening students had only nodded to each other once when they’d arrived; both looked equally exhausted after long days at what Danielle assumed were physically taxing jobs. Even before the class had officially started, they could barely keep their eyes open. “Why do you want to learn to read?” Danielle asked them. Lorvane shrugged, then replied, “Because I don’t want people to take me for an imbecile.” “For my daughter,” Fania said, her close-set eyes growing misty and full. “I have another reason you might want to keep in your mind,” Danielle said, leaning back into the same red rocking chair from which she read daily to her first graders. “Do the two of you ever travel between Haiti and here?” “Now and then,” Fania answered. Lorvane nodded coyly, as if uncertain where Danielle was taking them. “You remember what it’s like when it’s time to fill out your customs and immigration forms? You probably ask the person who happens to be sitting next to you on the plane to do it for you, right?” Fania kept her eyes on the cover of her brand-new composition notebook while Lorvane bobbed her head, her droopy chin sinking into her chest. “Some of the seatmates are not always in the mood, or able to help you,” Danielle continued, “so they wave you off, forcing you to ask the steward or stewardess, who has other duties but must quickly do this small favor for you as the whole plane watches. Reading and writing can spare you this type of humiliation.” She had prepared the speech beforehand and wanted to give them both a concrete goal to aspire to, the dream of one day completing questionnaires for themselves and for others. But to round things off, Danielle—whose furniture-maker father had snickered at his illiterate plane-mates during the flight that had brought them to Miami—also told Fania and Lorvane about ancient civilizations whose indigenous populations never knew how to read or write but, instead, used hieroglyphs with which it was easy to recognize water as a series of wavy lines, and a man or a bird as a drawing of such. And she reminded them both of the well-known Haitian saying “Analfabèt pa bèt,” one of Principal Boyfriend’s recent favorites, which, though it did not rhyme in English, could be translated as “Illiterates are not stupid.” Then, before proceeding to help the women trace and retrace the first letter of what suddenly seemed like a very long alphabet, she told Fania and Lorvane, whose mouth opened into a giant O as she occasionally nodded off, about breasts and butterflies and mothers lost too young. She volunteered to answer their questions, which, it turned out, were not so different from the ones often asked by her younger students: How long will this take? When will I go home? That night, after class, the two women made a trip to Principal Boyfriend’s office to tell him that they had learned only how to write the letter “A” in their first session with Danielle. She never opened a book and wrote only that single letter on the board toward the end of class. The rest of the time, she had just talked and talked like some crazy woman, and not always in English, which they hoped to learn, but in Creole, which they already spoke a whole lot better than she did. They asked to be transferred to someone else. “Screw them,” she told Principal Boyfriend when he recounted all this to her in bed. He held one of her hands under the sheets. She dangled the other over the side of the bed and, after a sudden rush of blood to her fingertips, felt it go numb. She wished sometimes that she’d agreed to his suggestion to paste a glow-in-the-dark constellation to the ceiling. He’d told her soon after they moved in together that when he was a boy he was afraid of really dark nights, nights that in Cankuzo were called “Who are you?” nights because it was hard even to recognize a friend. She hadn’t wanted their bedroom to look like a child’s bunker, but now she thought she might reconsider, for if she had planets and galaxies, half-moons and shooting stars to stare up at on nights like this it might be easier to pretend that she was somewhere else, in her mother’s garden, perhaps, on a warm summer evening, with soft blades of grass stroking her cheeks. Before going to bed, she had checked again and her lump was still there. It had neither grown nor shrunk since the morning, when she’d come across it like a strange presence in a familiar place, a sudden sixth finger near a perfect set of five, an amorphous birthmark on a swanlike neck. She was beginning to think of it, this thing inside her, as a fragile egg that might crack. It was essential that he not touch it, especially with amorous intent, as loving touches might nourish it or release it from its shell to roam freely to other parts of her body. “Maybe I should send those two women to someone else,” he said. He released her fingers to run his hand across her flat, muscle-rippled abdomen. When his elbow accidentally touched the lacy padded bra she had kept on, she moved it away and carefully lowered his arm onto his gut, a small mass of a beer belly filled with foods and sweets and liquors that she had also enjoyed. “I love you, you know,” he whispered. His words surprised her. She couldn’t remember the last time he’d said that to her. Maybe six months before, in the little garden café near the school, where he’d boldly taken her to lunch to celebrate their two-year anniversary as a “secret” couple before asking her to move in with him. Apart from her father, he was the only man she felt she could follow anywhere, yet she could never bring herself to tell him this. She had already shown her loyalty by joining the staff of his school, by agreeing to carry on a live-in romance that all her colleagues suspected but could not prove. She didn’t reply to his declaration of love, just reached over and took his hand and put it back on her stomach. “We have an investigation going at school,” he said. He moved his face closer to hers and stared at her in the dark. She wanted to turn away, but instead she pressed her eyelids together to make another kind of sky, a sky full of fireflies, tiny little torches lighting dead mothers’ paths. “Is it something big?” She wished she could paste fireflies to their bedroom ceiling, ones that she could let loose around the room now and then. But even when she was a girl, and immersed in the insect world, she had never trapped fireflies. Unlike the butterflies she kept until they turned to glittery dust, once the fireflies were dead she was no longer interested in them. “One of our kids told an aide that he was slapped by a teacher,” he said. “I asked Chantal Cazeau to look into it.” Chantal Cazeau: that grim-faced twenty-four-year-old doctoral student who was volunteering at the school for the year. On the wall above her desk in the office that she shared with three other aides was a giant poster filled with despondent-looking kids across whose faces were printed the words “children need advocates,” followed by a dozen exclamation marks. Like all the other teachers, Danielle had sat through many of Chantal Cazeau’s lunchtime professional-development seminars. “The children are sacred” was the theme of every one of her talks. “They deal with all kinds of shit at home: poverty, drugs, indifference, absent parents working two or three jobs to make the rent. We don’t want to add to their trauma here.” In addition to her role as school counsellor, Chantal Cazeau had suddenly become the school’s attorney general, cracking down on lesson-plan violators, inattentive testers, and abusive teachers. Principal Boyfriend had a lot to do with this. With the children’s salvation as his ultimate end, he could turn the least bit of enthusiasm into zeal, and had quickly made Chantal Cazeau a fanatic. Even though he shared little of his private life with his staff, he never hesitated to tell them that he loved them. He’d probably told Chantal Cazeau in some way that he loved her, just as he had the cafeteria workers, the janitors, the security guards, his secretary, even the soccer coach. And in return they all worshipped him enough, he hoped, to serve the children even better. It wasn’t meant to be a slap, just the wave of a hand, like a conductor guiding members of an orchestra, each with the same goal in mind but different instruments in hand. Toothless Paul, as even the other children with missing teeth called him, was one of the most disruptive boys in her class. He had long legs, which he constantly knocked together, and a loud, jittery laugh. Of her faithful twelve, her disciples, he interrupted her the most, both with his clamorous mirth and his impertinent questions. Whenever she tried to silence him by giving him some extra task or forcing him to stand alone in the back of the room, she was reminded that, unlike the other children, who had some weaknesses in either English or Creole, Paul was equally fluent in both and knew a long list of mumble-ready cuss words in each. He was in the habit of reaching over and, with both hands, grabbing the top of the chair in front of him, and rocking the little girl in it back and forth. Her name was Ruth, and she always wore elaborately ruffled Sunday dresses to class. Danielle had once called her parents to advise them to dress her more casually, but Ruth’s father had informed her that they didn’t take school casually and did not want to attire their daughter in a way that might encourage her to do so. Also, he said, they were Pentecostals and their religion prohibited them from letting their child wear most of the other clothes that were in stores these days. Danielle could now see that Paul’s rowdiness might have something to do with his mother’s inability to either engage or restrain him, for he always seemed eager, hungry even, for distractions beyond anything around him. Perhaps she should have called the mother in, or referred him to Chantal Cazeau for evaluation, but she had thought herself capable of handling him. That particular morning, she was reading a version of Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Snow Queen” to the class. Concerned that the children might not fully understand the story, she had avoided it before. But Principal Boyfriend had encouraged her to make it a part of her reading lesson, to show her students, he said, that people from other cultures also valued tales filled with ugly demons and little girls who spoke to flowers, rivers, and birds. She had found herself enthralled with the sound of her own wistful voice. The most beautiful landscapes looked like boiled spinach, and the nicest people appeared loathsome, or they seemed to stand on their heads with their stomachs missing and their faces so twisted that you couldn’t tell who they were. If someone had a freckle, you can be sure that it would spread over his nose and mouth. For a while, she had even managed to ignore Paul, who mimicked her facial expressions and lip movements and grimaced to distract the others. How grey and hard the wide world was! But the more Paul was ignored the more animated his impersonation became, until most of the children stopped listening to laugh at him. Or were they laughing at her? The room was completely silent when Danielle put the book down and headed for Paul’s desk. As Danielle approached, he straightened his body and looked straight ahead, avoiding her glare. Even as she was standing beside him, she had not yet decided what to do with him. Where would she send him this time? To the back of the room? Or, as a new measure, to the principal’s office? She had meant only to accentuate whatever command she gave him by pounding on his desk with her open palm, but when a familiar toothless smirk flashed across his face, one he desperately tried to control, she found herself wanting to erase it, the way she did the words and numbers from the blackboard at the end of each school day. She realized that she’d hit him only when she heard the other children gasp. Paul reached up and rubbed the side of his face, but only for a moment. There were no finger marks that she could see, no blood streaming past his lips. He didn’t cry. Instead, he went on smirking, his toothless gap growing wider, until Danielle walked back to her red rocking chair and continued her reading lesson. The next morning, Principal Boyfriend left before she did, for he had duties, as he constantly reminded her, which required that he arrive at school ahead of the staff, even the cafeteria workers. On this day, this new day, she would neglect the lump, not check for it at all. She would pretend that in her sleep some magic clock had been turned back to the days when her body was still her own. She was certain now that he knew about Paul. He was simply waiting for her to confess. “We owe each other that much,” she could imagine him saying. Or perhaps, “You owe young Paul that much.” “And what does anyone owe me?” she might say, but probably wouldn’t. She couldn’t face them yet. Not him. Not Paul. Not Chantal Cazeau. So she called his machine at work and said that her father wasn’t feeling well and she was going to see him. Her father still lived in the same town house in the gated lakeside community where she’d spent her late-teen and college years. Aside from her education, it was the only lavish expense he’d allowed himself, after selling their house, his furniture business, and her mother’s textile shop in Haiti. Between her college and graduate-school years, he had remarried twice, first to a retired nurse, who went to Port-au-Prince on a medical mission and decided to stay, then to a young beauty-salon owner who had wanted him to cut off all contact with Danielle. Whenever she came to visit her now single father, she loved lying on his gingham, feather-stuffed couch with her head on his lap, as they caught up on each other’s life. He no longer smelled the way he did when she was a girl, like the lemon-and-alcohol-scented furniture varnish, which had given an orange tint to his callused palms. Now he smelled like wet soil, crabgrass and other weeds, tree barks and insect carcasses, like his lakeside garden. He had worked as a carpenter and landscaper for years and was happy, as he often said, to have no other responsibilities but to watch the sun rise and set. He didn’t leave the house much, except when Danielle begged him to join her and Principal Boyfriend for the occasional dinner and holiday meals. After both his wives had left, he began draping the walls with fabric so that his living room looked exactly like the showroom of her mother’s textile shop, where crêpe, calico, gabardine, satin, and organza filled every spot. But in her father’s house the cloth swayed in the midday breeze. “You did what?” her father asked, gently running his fingers through her hair. “I slapped one of the boys in my class yesterday,” she said. “Any blood?” “No blood.” “Then?” “Then maybe I should quit.” “Why?” he asked, without even lifting his fingers out of her hair. “Don’t you remember how hard your mother used to beat you because you liked playing with insects so much, because you were like a boy?” She did remember, as a matter of fact. Not all the time, but every now and then she did. What she remembered most vividly, though, was her mother’s odd advice, suggesting that in some way she could transform herself by rubbing the insects against her chest. It seemed harmless now, that advice, even fantastical. But back then she had taken it seriously. Could her body have, too? “Your mother loved you so much,” her father went on. He’d spent that whole first night after the shooting in a chair, shaking, and hadn’t said more than three or four words at a time to anyone. “It can’t be. It is not possible.” From where her head lay on his lap, Danielle could see what in the midday light seemed like two lines of crystal tears sliding down his face. “When she was pregnant with you,” he said, “she didn’t even want to raise her arms too far above her head, because someone had told her that it could cause the umbilical cord to be wrapped around your neck. She didn’t hit you because she hated you. She wanted you to be better.” “Better than what?” she asked as she reached up to wipe the tears. “Better than dirt,” he said. “Better than your classmate who killed her. Better, probably, than the boy you slapped yesterday.” Where was that classmate now, about whom all she could remember was that he spent his summers in Canada and could sing along with the radio in three languages? She had become a teacher, her father knew, in order to find these types of boys early, to detect and save them. But the moment she slapped Paul she’d felt neither guilt nor remorse but retribution, justice. That afternoon, after school, they were all in her classroom, just as his secretary said they would be. Sometimes when she walked into a place like her classroom or their apartment, a place she’d helped decorate, she felt as though she had breached the threshold of her imagination and was inside her own head. Principal Boyfriend was sitting behind the small mahogany desk they’d picked out together at a flea market. She had wanted something other than the bland, district-assigned desk, something that reflected her own taste. On her labeled locker, in the same row as the children’s, she’d pasted laminated replicas of her diplomas and certificates of advanced-training courses from the University of Miami, where they’d met. He had told her to put them out in full view, to assure the parents that their children were being taught by a well-qualified staff. When Danielle walked in, she tried to envision how many others had already been there that day. The kids, of course, and the day’s substitute teacher. After school, there might also have been counsellors and aides, making suggestions about what measures should be taken. They had chosen to meet in her classroom, his secretary had said, so that Paul could feel more comfortable telling his story, reënacting the incident even, if he had to. But her own familiarity with everything there confused her. It was as though some of the children had grown up and had become these adults, who were all suddenly irate with her. Chantal Cazeau sat slouched in the rocking chair, immediately across from Principal Boyfriend. She was flipping through a legal pad filled with notes scribbled in her diminutive handwriting. Paul was at his own desk next to Lorvane, who was wedged into another child’s chair. Lorvane, who had probably been called from work, wore her white-collared indigo uniform. The four of them seemed flat and rigid, like the Velcro figures Danielle sometimes used to mime stories for the children. Principal Boyfriend seemed torn between his roles, his eyes swerving back and forth to look at each of them. Danielle could see that he was choosing his words carefully. Finally, he simply asked her, “Are you O.K.?” “Let’s get started.” Chantal Cazeau tapped the legal pad against her palm. “We have quite a bit to cover here.” It was obvious that she was in charge. He had yielded total control to her for these particular proceedings. Good leadership, he liked to say, like good loving, was knowing when to surrender. Lorvane got up and reached back to massage her behind, where the chair had left a damp crease. They were all standing now, all except Paul, who remained quietly at his desk, gripping both sides with clenched fists. He tapped his sneakers against the floor without making any noise. “First of all, I’d like to let Paul know that it was very brave of him to come forward,” Chantal said, nodding in the child’s direction. “The principal and I are committed to making sure that something like this never happens again.” “Miss?” Lorvane took a few small, hesitant steps toward Danielle. “They say you slapped my son?” Lorvane kept moving closer, until Danielle could feel her warm breath on her face, could almost describe, if pressed, what Lorvane had eaten for lunch. “Yesterday I came to learn to read from you.” Lorvane pursed her lips, just as her son sometimes did during those rare moments when he was still. “I wanted to come because my son told me what a good teacher you are,” Lorvane continued. “He told me you are patient with him and all the other children. He says you talk to them and explain many things and read all kinds of stories to them every day. I said to myself, ‘I have much to learn from this teacher, this wonderful teacher.’ ” Lorvane reached toward Paul’s desk and, without taking her eyes off Danielle, grabbed him by the shoulders and plopped him between herself and Danielle. His body was obedient and lifeless; his arms hung limply at his sides. “Am I lying, son?” Lorvane raised the boy’s face toward them. Paul shook his head no. His mouth was closed, but his lips trembled and it seemed to Danielle that, for the first time since she’d known him, he might start to cry. “Let’s all sit down and talk about this,” Chantal Cazeau said, her voice a few decibels higher than usual. “You see, Miss,” Lorvane went on, ignoring Chantal. “I would give you the permission to spank my son anytime if he needed it, if it would help him.” “That’s not the way we do things here,” Principal Boyfriend finally interjected. “We would never hit your son at this school,” he assured Lorvane. “Do you understand?” “I would sign a paper, if I have to, for spanking,” Lorvane insisted. “But I would never let anyone slap my son.” Lorvane gently moved Paul aside. Freed, he buried his face behind one of the chairs. Stepping back, Lorvane took a deep breath, then aimed for Danielle. The slap landed on Danielle’s cheek before she could see it coming. Her head swung so quickly that both of her ears tapped against each of her shoulders for a moment. Her cheek throbbed. It felt hot, then warm, then deadened, so that if Lorvane slapped her again she probably wouldn’t feel a thing. Now she understood the concept of turning the other cheek. It wasn’t so much directed at your neighbor; it was allowing yourself to experience even further pain. Acted out, it would indeed be an extraordinary sacrifice. “We are finished now,” Lorvane said. “No more meetings. No police. Just teach my child. And remember, ‘Kids are not stupid.’ ” Lorvane grabbed Paul’s hand and yanked him across the room toward the door. Her voice remained suspended in the room like one of the children’s runaway balloons, the kind they brought to school for birthdays and holidays but never managed to hold on to. On his way out, with the contented look of the vindicated warrior, Paul turned to face Danielle, opened his mouth, and flashed his bare gums in his version of a celebratory smile. Danielle heard herself breathing loudly as she tried to massage some sensation back into her cheekbone. The door slammed behind Lorvane and Paul, their loud exchange fading as they moved down the hall. Chantal Cazeau laid her pad on the desk in front of Principal Boyfriend and motioned for Danielle to sit down in the rocking chair. Principal Boyfriend’s gaze was fixed on Danielle as though she and he were alone in one of those dark rooms of his childhood, and he was trying to figure out who she was. A droning sound, like a telephone dial tone, was ringing in Danielle’s ear, but she thought she heard Principal Boyfriend ask once more, “Are you O.K.?” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Adam Robinson	TUESDAY After the cab turned off East Capitol onto Eighth Street, Noah Robinson saw further evidence that trees were disappearing from Washington. Where were all the oaks and maples and birches, even the odd pear, apple, or peach tree, that had been there in the time when he did not yet know himself and the city seemed always as green as his grandparents’ idea of Heaven? Even when he had become responsible for a wife and children, the trees had still been there, reminding him year after hard year how far he had to go and how far he had come. Now the landscape of the city, high and low, seemed barren, no grand trees for children playing hide-and-go-seek, no spreading refuge for old people out in the fire of summer. Why had he not noticed the death of the trees before, at age forty, at fifty-five, at sixty? When he was seven and his family first arrived in Washington, he’d had a teacher at Stevens Elementary School who taught her students about the trees of the city. Mrs. Waters hung her eyeglasses on a pink string around her neck and told them how lucky they were to have trees in Washington. The boy loved the teacher and he loved learning about trees, and he loved the way the trees told him through the teacher’s words that he, pining for South Carolina, might yet be happy in this new world. The cab now bumped its way over potholes up Eighth Street. The tree devastation had extended even to the modest showy trees, the trees that the other Washington, known for façade and neglect, might have endeavored to save. That world liked to talk only about the biggest showoffs, the trees they gave all the care to—the cherry trees. “The blossoms are coming, the blossoms are coming!” went their hallelujah each spring. But the young man Noah, ever a student of Mrs. Waters’s, had known the beauty of the black locust and the paulownia, flowering away their magnificent hearts in April, May, and June. And they did so without school bands and beauty queens and tourists, without the articles in the newspapers that year after silly year heralded the cherry trees. The apartment of the woman with whom he had committed adultery was in a building that had oaks in the back yard, and once, lying with her, he had heard acorns falling and mistaken them for footsteps. And he had stayed away from the woman for weeks. His son had appreciated the trees of Washington, but his girls had found more joy in rosebushes and Queen Anne’s lace, and even goldenrod, perhaps because they didn’t have to climb to admire the blossoms. His son loved to climb trees and call down to his father, “Watch me!” When people died, Noah Robinson’s people dreamed of them, and so far there had been no dreams about his son, the baby of the family. His son might yet be alive. The cab approached H Street N.E. He could see that box after box meant for trees existed now only to support litter. Between the parked cars, Noah could see that the city-government people had thrown up the occasional young tree, like the one in front of his apartment building. Most of those trees had few leaves, frail generic things propped up with wooden supports. They would not live out the year. “Root, little pig, or die,” his father and grandfather liked to say. The cab turned onto H Street. Noah forgave that street for being virtually treeless, for that had always been its way. He had courted Maggie up and down H Street, with all its stores and gritty life, one symbol of a people used to doing much with less. The darkness of the Atlas Theatre on H had given him the courage to lean over and kiss Maggie’s cheek that first time. She had not yet seen sixteen, and he still had the gentlemanly quality of the countrified South about him. Someone, some adult in a nearly empty theatre, watching them the way adults once watched over all the children in Washington, saw the quick kiss and told Maggie’s father, and he forbade her to see Noah for two months. Now, as the cab went along H Street, Maggie Robinson took her hand from Noah’s knee and placed it over his open hand resting on his thigh. She sighed, frustrated, a woman who had had time for only half a cup of coffee that morning. “I am satisfied now. I am done with having your children, Noah,” she had said to him the day after Caleb’s birth. Caleb who might yet be alive. “Remember,” Noah said now, observing the stained and indecipherable zone map on the back of the cab’s front seat, “when you couldn’t walk down a D.C. street without trees jumpin in your way and makin a nuisance of themselves?” He had been a pallbearer at Mrs. Waters’s funeral. Because she had been a great woman and teacher, the mayor had been there, with a mouthful of expensive teeth and a manufactured brand of camaraderie that the élite schools had taught the mayor’s kind to pass off as charm among the common people. The mayor’s limousine had got lost on the way to the funeral, because it wasn’t used to going to Anacostia. In Noah’s youth, most of the politicians had confined themselves to their pen on Capitol Hill. “I remember,” Maggie said. “I’m sure you do.” He looked at her and winked. One tree was as good as another to her, a woman with more than two hundred years of Washingtonians behind her. He squeezed her hand and raised it and kissed it once, then once again. He had waited forever for that woman with whom he committed adultery to show up on his doorstep and tell his wife, “I laid with the father of your children.” He was still waiting. He let go of Maggie’s hand. They had been married forty-five years. Last year, to celebrate that anniversary, their friends had given them a king’s catered dinner at the Elks’ club and so many gifts that it took two cars to get the gifts home. A month later, their two-year-old granddaughter—no mother, no Caleb for a father—had come to live with them. That first night, as their granddaughter, Elsa, slept in the bed beside Maggie, he had sat most of the night in the darkened living room, looking over at a Waterford vase, one of the gifts presented at the Elks dinner. It had cost more than his grandfather earned in two years of plowing behind a mule. With no light to bounce off it, the vase sat dull and uninspired on the table beside the couch. So many of the descendants of slaves had done well in Washington, for themselves and for the flesh of their flesh, but his own son had failed as a father, the first to do so in a long, long line of good and righteous fathers. “Yes, Ma’am, I’m talkin bout your Noah, father to your children. I laid with him.” Could a man, even one worshipped by his children, be considered a good father if he was an adulterer and had hurt the mother of his children? Had he in fact been the first in that line to fail and thus doomed his own son? Months before their granddaughter came to them, they had gone to Kenya. Oh, but he had loved Kenya! What would seeing the rest of the world have done for him? After Maggie fell asleep that first night in Kenya, he had stood in his robe at the hotel window for a long time, but all the sounds and smells of Nairobi couldn’t lull him to sleep. That was the way it was for most of their twelve nights there. But he had so adored Kenya. They had planned to see Africa and the world in their retirement. He knew now, though, that his two grandchildren, first Elsa and now Adam, would cost him the rest of Africa and the world. The cab came to a stop at North Capitol Street. The traffic light was out again, and the city-government people had sent a policeman to do the work of the light. Noah turned his head and saw a black man with banana-yellow hair standing in the small crowd waiting at the corner. The man was bobbing his head to a tune that came through his headphones. Noah and the yellow-haired black man looked at each other, and after a second or so the man raised his hand to greet Noah. Noah slowly raised his hand. “You know him?” Maggie said. “I think I did once,” Noah said. “I don’t remember. I do know it ain’t long after ten o’clock in the morning and already he’s made twenty white people happy.” He often felt a momentary dizziness with the high-blood-pressure pills he took after rising in the morning. Get the hard work done and over, like the extended exercises he had started with Elsa’s coming. There had been no dizziness this morning. Perhaps his body knew it might have to clank off to battle and had no time to waste on dizziness. Where had he gone wrong with Caleb? Was the woman the beginning and end of it all? To have failed with one child, with a boy, even. It did not matter that he had succeeded with three girls. Caleb cried out in somebody’s wilderness and he was crying Noah’s name. Perhaps that woman had knocked on the door of their lives and only God had heard her, and God from his Heaven had reached down and punished with the tip of one of his fingernails. The taxi crossed into Northwest D.C. H Street seemed to have become blocked with potholes, and somehow, to avoid the potholes, the taxi ended up on Massachusetts Avenue, where the city-government people never failed to battle the pothole problem because the senators and congressmen went back and forth on that street to Capitol Hill. At Seventh Street they turned left. Farther down the street was Lansburgh, a once-upon-a-time department store that white people in the past few years had made into a building of expensive apartments. His father had bought him a blue, fifteen-dollar suit at Lansburgh when he was thirteen. He was wearing a suit now, as was often the case with men of a certain age, from a certain age, black men who had grown up comfortable with such attire because their fathers and grandfathers had done it that way. They wore suits out into the world the way knights had worn armor; they wore suits even to baseball games and to shoeshine jobs. Elsa, his granddaughter, had cried to see him leave that morning. She had a good vocabulary for a three-year-old who had been so long around the city-government people and their foster families, but she could not say “Grandpa.” “Grandma” was no trouble. She had begun to cry as soon as she saw him put on his tie, one that his own father had worn. He had picked her up and her teary face had fallen into the crook of his neck. Before the cab turned back onto H Street, Noah asked his wife, “What do you think he eats?” “Little-boy food,” Maggie said, and tapped the knobby knee of a man who could do a hundred deep knee bends. The city-government people made a show of putting their offices all about the city. “We Are Where You Are,” their signs proclaimed. The building in Chinatown at 622 H had only five stories, though a city-government woman in another part of the city had told Noah on the telephone that they could find Adam on the eighth floor. They found Adam on the fifth floor, where a man in front of the building smoking two cigarettes at once had told them “they keep all the boys.” The piece of paper on the door said “824.” The paper was flapping though there was no wind in the hall. The boy, their grandson, was sitting on an orange plastic chair beside a majestic desk, his back to them, his feet unmoving, a foot or so up from the floor. He was six years old, and they had last seen him when he was but seven days old, wrapped in one of the three blankets Maggie had bought for him at Hecht’s. A hatted black policeman looking at a magazine with pictures of naked women sat at the big desk. He was facing them, and when he saw Maggie and Noah he pointed at them and Adam looked around the side of the chair. The policeman and the boy were alone in the large room filled with nothing but telephones and chairs and huge desks. The policeman had on headphones under his hat and there was a radio playing on his desk. When Noah came closer and the policeman took off his hat and headphones, Noah could hear that the music on the radio was different from the music seeping out of the headphones. Adam got down from the chair and stood very close to it, his arms at his sides. His hands were empty, wide open, one finger twitching. There was something coming, his body seemed to say, and he had best face it head on. It was the middle of July, and the city-government people had dressed him in corduroy pants and a long-sleeved black shirt, which reminded Noah of gangsters in the movies. He was the son of Maggie and Noah’s only son, and Elsa’s brother, and anyone in the world who knew their son Caleb could see that. Caleb—along with Adam’s mother, Tamara—had disappeared out in that world and no one had seen them for hundreds upon hundreds of days. Maggie went to the boy and knelt, pulled him to her. There was a shopping bag near the boy and someone had pencilled his name on it and that someone had misspelled it. There was nothing else with him, and it was the nothing else that made Maggie pull him closer. At six, Caleb Robinson had had a trunk full of toys, a teacher mother, three sisters who treated him like a prince, a father who commanded a good wage because even blindfolded he could repair any car. Maggie continued to hold the boy and Adam’s arms stayed at his sides. “You know who I am?” she asked him, pulling back a bit and then kissing him. “Yes,” he said, but that was not true. A yes was always easier, safer, than a no. The no’s were always trouble for some reason, and the boy was sick and tired of trouble. “I’m your grandmother and I’m taking you home for good.” Adam looked up at Noah, who smiled down and cupped the boy’s chin. “That’s your grandfather. Forever and ever,” Maggie said. Adam said, “Yes.” The policeman put down his magazine open to the page he was studying and stood up. He reached out his hand to Noah, but Noah ignored him and took up the handles of the shopping bag. When they learned that Adam was not with his mother’s people, they had paid five hundred dollars to a man who, though on the D.C. payroll, spent half his workdays as a private detective. “I’ll find that boy,” he had assured them, but he had never gone looking. Three months ago, the city-government people called out of the blue to say they had their grandson, “one Andy Robinson of an unknown age.” But when Maggie and Noah went to the Southeast address to pick him up the city-government people did not have him. They lined up five teen-age boys for the couple, but none of the boys would answer to the name Adam, despite all the pleading from the city-government woman. “That ain’t me. How many times I gotta tell ya, lady? That just ain’t me,” the smallest of the five kept insisting. Adam had stayed lost until the city-government people called again, two days ago, at four on a rainy Sunday morning. “Why you call so early?” Noah asked. “I got nothin better to do, Mister.” They took the stairs, because the elevators refused to go down when there were people in them. Outside, Noah rolled up the boy’s sleeves and pants legs and Maggie held tight to Adam’s hand. He did not turn his head to look left or right but stared only at where he was going. It was a busy street, H, and yet he seemed to have willed himself not to be curious about what was going on. “You hungry, Adam?” Noah said. Adam said yes. The people he had come upon in and out of the city government had taught him that they could not hear him shaking his head. Shaking or nodding the head was as bad as a no to them. And yes was preferred, not yeah. “Good black children never say ‘yeah.’ You ain’t back down on some slavery plantation, boy.” “You like Chinese food?” Noah said, looking up and down H at all the restaurants. “Yes.” Noah and Maggie looked at each other. “Oh,” Noah said. “You like their corned beef and cabbage, huh?” “Yes.” “We’d better find a McDonald’s or something,” Maggie said. “I think he’d drink hemlock if we put it before him.” They went to the McDonald’s on E Street across from the fortress that was the F.B.I. headquarters. Maggie and Adam sat at a place near the window while Noah got the food. “I got five dollars,” Adam said while they waited. Don’t you know food cost money, boy? Don’t you know that? Black children gotta learn the value of money. “Oh?” Maggie said. “You’re rich.” He looked puzzled and said, “I got it from a lady who used to be my mother.” Sometimes they liked the truth. “Tamara? You got it from Tamara?” Wherever his mother was, she was not with Caleb. The grapevine had told Maggie that Tamara and Caleb had come to despise each other toward the end, not long before Elsa was born. Dope fiends, Noah began calling them. But worse than that, he continued, they were bad parents who had flung their flesh and blood to the winds. Root, little pig, or die. “You got the money from Tamara?” “No,” Adam said softly. “The other lady who was my mother. Miss Joyce. She wasn’t even my mother no more and she gave me five dollars. I had baths with millions of bubbles. She gave me five dollars when Miss Billie was my mother. Miss Billie hit this man in the head with a fryin pan and made blood pop out his head.” Adam tapped the top of his head several times with his knuckles. “He fell down and went to sleep. She hit him again.” He continued tapping, then rested the hand on the table, the edge of which came midway up his chest. “Miss Joyce had a big house. Bubble time.” Noah came with the food. He sat across from them, his back to the window. He spread out napkins for a placemat for Adam, unwrapped a hamburger for the boy, and popped a straw through the top of a chocolate-milkshake container. Adam watched his grandfather’s hands. Noah tore open the cardboard box with the French fries sticking out and squirted little packets of ketchup over them. It was nearing noon and the sun was high and they were shaded where they sat. Adam put his hands in his lap. There had been one city-government mother who made him and the rest of those at her table say a five-minute prayer to Jehovah Our Loving Master before and after meals. “Eat, boy, eat,” Noah said. “There’s plenty more where that come from.” Adam ate. Each time someone came near them he leaned forward, hunched over his food, and when the person had passed he sat up straight again. Noah ate little chunks of chicken. “Why’d you get that?” Maggie said. “The fish would have been better for you.” “I read in the paper where the fish was worse. Somethin bout how they make it up, what they put in it. And all that sauce. With chicken I kinda know what I’m gettin. You have to do a lot to a chicken after you wring his neck before you turn it into a mystery meat.” He looked at Adam. “Right?” “Yes.” “He’s rich,” Maggie said. “He’s got five whole dollars. His mother gave it to him.” She looked hard at Noah to make certain he got what she meant. “Not Tamara. Miss Joyce.” “I got it in my shoe.” “Don’t tell people where you got your valuables, baby,” Noah said. “It’s O.K. with us. But don’t tell other people, baby.” Maggie put down her hamburger. “You do know,” she said to Adam, “that you are coming home with us?” “Home to Mama Wilson?” He stopped eating. “Goin home?” “No, to our place,” Noah said. “You live with us now. We’re your people, we’re your family.” Noah pointed at Maggie and then at his own chest. Just a week before, a retired friend of Noah’s had got on his boat and sailed off with his fourth wife around the world. A black man and woman on the wide blue sea. Adam resumed eating, but they could tell that whatever joy he had found in the food was now gone. “Yes,” he said after a bit. “Yes, Ma’am” or “Yes, sir” was disallowed more times than allowed. People sometimes thought a “ma’am” or a “sir” made them seem old. “Dontcha put me in my grave before I’m ready,” one city-government man had warned him. “I just won’t have livin in my grave before the good Lord calls me.” Their granddaughter, Elsa, stood tiny and eager when Maggie opened the door. She ran and grabbed Maggie’s leg, then she put her arms around Adam and reached up and kissed his cheek, though she had never laid eyes on him a day in her life. Adam, having known some good children in his life, giggled. Finally, Elsa went to Noah and he picked her up with an arm that could do seventy-five pushups, dropping Adam’s shopping bag just inside the door. Elsa kissed his mouth. “I thought she’d have a conniption fit waitin for yall,” said Mrs. Battle, a neighbor from downstairs. “It was ‘Grandma’ this and ‘Grandma’ that. She kept pointin at that picture of yall on the side table. But she settled down after a while. If you start tellin a child how to pick cotton, they go quiet. How you go up this row and down that row, pickin them little bugs outa your cup of water. Talkin bout pickin cotton is like a mother’s lullaby. A child will calm down and drift along.” Noah said nothing. Maggie introduced her to Adam. “A full house now, huh?” Mrs. Battle said. “My, my.” She had nine grandchildren and three great-grands, but they all went home in the evening after visiting. And if she allowed one to stay the night—for she loved all of them more than she let on—the child’s parents had to come get him or her before noon or she would put the child in a cab bound for home. Before the taxi arrived for the pickup, she would pin an enveloped note to the child’s blouse or shirt: “I raised one set and I don’t plan on raisin another.” Adam watched Mrs. Battle leave and then stood beside his shopping bag. It was all wrong because it was all so perfect. The way the carpet soothed his feet even with his tennis shoes on. The table of many flowers in front of the window, a clean window with the ever so blue curtains fluttering in the wind from the machine that cooled everything. The thousand photographs of grownups and children who had more right to stand where he was standing, because they were family. The girl’s doll sleeping on the floor against the couch, waiting for another go-round. He had known perfect before, but there had always been a tilt, and that tilt told him that this was home, however temporary: Music all the time, even in the middle of the night. A big dog gnawing at a chair leg and turning its head to eye him. Whatcha lookin at, boy? A finger in his face to emphasize a thousand rules. Mustard-and-ketchup sandwiches. Cigarette smoke curling around his nose before it dashed in. Even in Miss Joyce’s big house there had been unlit corners that whispered, Stay away. The basement. Whatever this was, it was not home in the way he had been taught. He put his fingers around the shopping bag’s handles. “When I’m goin home?” he said at last in as submissive a tone as he could muster. “What?” Noah said. He put Elsa down. Maggie was adjusting the thermostat. “You are home,” Noah said. Adam blinked but didn’t release the handles. Noah reached out his hand to the boy and Adam took it, dragging the bag along. Noah led him into the first bedroom of the apartment. “That’s gonna be your bed.” The man pointed to one of the twin beds on either side of a window adorned with a green curtain. The bedspread was beige and covered with cartoon people Adam remembered from a television in a city-government home in Northeast. “And that’s your Teddy bear there, waitin for you to give him a name.” Adam had once seen a dog named Cecil tear open the stomach of a Teddy bear. The brown bear on this bed sat propped against two pillows, one on top of the other, and the bear’s arms were wide open. Elsa was now standing in the doorway. “And here,” Noah said, leading him across the room to a chest of drawers. “These two drawers up here belong to you.” He pulled out the drawers and picked Adam up to show him the shirts and pajamas and underwear in both drawers, the result of Maggie’s quick trip downtown the day before. “And this here middle one you can share with Elsa for socks and whatnot. O.K.?” He pulled the drawer out and pointed to the boy’s socks on the left side. “See?” Adam said, “Yes.” “You do know that Elsa is your sister, don’t you?” “Yes.” Noah noticed that the yeses were piling up and weren’t amounting to even a speck of caring or understanding. He put the bag on the floor beside the bed and sat on the bed, taking Adam between his legs. “I know how bad this might be right now, but you’ll see. It’ll work out.” Noah did not believe that. The second bank had yet to call back about cashing in one of his retirement funds, money that would have paid for a trip to China when they were seventy. “Can you trust me? Can you trust your grandma and me to do the right thing by you?” Noah opened his hands, made a bowl of them, and offered it to the boy. Adam put one of his hands into the bowl. Elsa came up to them, standing very close to Adam. She said nothing, but watched the man and the boy. Adam looked at her and she put her face hard against his arm. He remembered her from somewhere, and as he kept his hand in his grandfather’s he thought that if he could remember her he would be home again, at Mama Wilson’s, and everything would be jim-dandy. THURSDAY For five weeks, Noah had been tending a new, frail tree in front of their two-story apartment building. He took the children out that evening with his can of water. The tree box was now eight straight days without debris, a record. There was an oak about midway down the street, the 1500 block of Independence Avenue in Southeast. It was sturdy, maybe owing to the prayers of the three older women who lived in the house facing it. Across the street, down near Sixteenth, were the remnants of a catalpa that refused to die. Noah handed the can to Adam. “Give it some,” he told the boy, and Adam watered the tree. “Now let her.” Adam gave the can to Elsa, who had trouble with it and got most of the water on the sidewalk and in the gutter. Adam looked at Noah and Noah winked knowingly at him. Girls, Noah mouthed, and rolled his eyes. His car, a year-old Toyota, was parked a few yards beyond the building. Noah opened the front passenger door and let Adam crawl into the driver’s seat. He sat in the passenger seat with Elsa on his lap. He waited for the boy to pretend to drive, the way all boys did, the way Caleb did, but Adam just looked out the window. “Go on, take us somewhere,” Noah said. Adam said, “Where?” “Anywhere you want,” his grandfather said and took Adam’s hands and placed them on the steering wheel. “Why don’t you take us home?” “Home,” Elsa said. Without a word, Adam moved his hands slowly about the wheel. Noah said, “That’s what I’m talkin about.” “Talkin bout,” Elsa said. “You been in a airplane?” Adam said, not looking at his grandfather and still moving his hands on the wheel. “Yeah,” Noah said. “A whole lotta times. You been in one?” Adam did not answer. “We’ll take you up in one. We’ll go see your Aunt Charlene, in Chicago. Surprise her before she comes to see us. We’ll drive to Baltimore to see your Aunt Laverne and your uncle and your cousins. And we’ll go across the river to see your Aunt Imogene.” The boy put his hands in his lap and looked out the window. Jesus Christ, Noah thought. Now what did I say? What had done it, he wondered, talking about the airplane, Aunt Charlene, Chicago? “You ain’t thinkin bout goin home again, are you?” Adam said nothing. Noah took one of the boy’s hands and placed it back on the wheel. “Drive us some more, Adam,” he said. “Take us somewhere.” SATURDAY While Noah did the dinner dishes, Maggie bathed the children. There were two quite noticeable scars on the boy’s back, a superficial one of some two inches at his left shoulder and a more profound one of less than an inch down near the base of his spine. She did not yet have the courage to ask about them. “We have to fatten you up,” she said, squeezing warm water from the washcloth over his back. “Make you as fat as a little piggy.” He told her he knew a bath song, and he started singing a bunch of nonsense words. Elsa, her back to the spigot, joined in. Her back was unblemished. Later, after the children had watched one of two dozen videos their youngest daughter, in Virginia, had sent, Noah sat between them on the couch and read from a fairy-tale book. He had not been a good reader until he met Maggie. After Mrs. Waters, he and school had not got along, he once told her. Not three weeks after Elsa came to them, he had sat her on his lap for a simple bedtime story. She pointed to magazines on the coffee table and he had to suffer through three copies of Ebony as she asked about every picture in them. Hundreds of pages and thousands of pictures. “What this?” she asked as she pointed to each picture. “Thas a doggy.” She certainly knew a man and a dog and a woman when she saw them in her everyday life, but for some reason she needed him to make the connection between what was in her mind and the colorful pictures in the magazines. “What this?” “A truck.” And she needed him to connect them over and over. He started cheating with the third magazine, turning five and ten pages at a time. “What this? What this?” Adam fell asleep before the fairy tale had ended, leaned over against Noah’s arm, his open mouth forming a very small O. His grandfather carried him to the bed where the Teddy bear was waiting. “He sleepin,” Elsa said as Noah went out of the room. “Now you,” Maggie said, picking the girl up. On the couch, Noah put his arm around Maggie. “I don’t want no more hanky-panky with my daughter,” her father had said to Noah after he had been exiled because of the Atlas Theatre kiss. Her father had guided fifteen-year-old Noah by the neck around to the side of the house. An ancient elm straddled the properties of Maggie’s family and the people next door. “I can’t help that Maggie wants to see you, boy, but I can help how many of your teeth I knock outa your head.” The elms had not fared well in other cities, Noah had heard, but all the ones he had seen in Washington had been thriving. “Open your mouth, boy. Open it wide. Thas one I’ll get. And them two teeth over there, I’ll knock them out, too.” He had eulogized his father-in-law, named his son after him. “This is the saddest day of my life, cause I come here to bury one a my fathers,” Noah had said in that church, with a thousand people looking on. “You want some more cake?” Maggie said. “Naw, I’m done for the night.” He squeezed her shoulder. “Want some TV?” He had struggled on through his last year of high school, hoping that that would impress her father. “What’s on?” Maggie asked. She had a Ph.D. His three daughters had four Ph.D.s and an M.D. among them. He and Caleb had only high-school diplomas. “What am I gonna do with you, Noah?” her father had said the day Noah asked to marry Maggie. Falling acorns had a way of sounding to an adulterer like the footsteps of a father-in-law. “Let me turn it back on and see.” He reached for the remote control, but she pulled his arm back. “Let it come on by magic,” she said. “Let’s see it come on by magic.” In Rome they had turned on the television, but none of it made sense because they did not know the language. It rained a lot in Paris their first days there and they would sleep until eleven or so in the morning. “I will see you again, Kenya,” he had said, buckling his airplane seat belt. “I’ll see you before the by-and-by.” MONDAY In the newspaper’s obituaries, he saw, for the hundredth time, a name that he thought could be that of the woman, but he could not be certain, because he had long ago forgotten her name. They, he and the woman, had started what they had nearly a year before Maggie became pregnant with Caleb. “What’s the use a eatin your lunch in this dirty old garage?” the woman said to him the day she brought her broken-down Chevy in and saw him sitting on a stool eating a tuna-salad sandwich that Maggie had made. Maggie’s coffee still hot in the thermos. “I got a nice table and chair just waitin to be used.” Maggie had asked him once what he thought of having just one woman for the rest of his life, and he had innocently thrown it back at her and asked what she thought of having but one man for the rest of hers. She said she was fine with that. Just fine, thank you very much. That was when they had had only one child, and it was nighttime when she asked and right then that one baby girl started crying for more of everything and he never got to answer her and she never asked the question again. One baby, two babies, three babies . . . He waited two days after the woman’s offer of the chair and table and got her address from the work order, told his fellow-workers, Big Tiny and the rest, he was taking lunch in the park. Big Tiny said, “Dontcha get into any fights with them sassy trees in that park, y’hear?” “I knowed it was you even before I opened the door,” the woman said after his two knocks—knocks so soft they wouldn’t have awoken a sleeping baby. It was a few days after Palm Sunday and she had palms sticking out between her bedroom mirror and the wall. The wind came through the window and disturbed the palms, and when the wind stopped, the palms on the bottom were the first to come to rest. The top ones took a while, as they held on to the memory of wind for a longer time. “I’m Catholic,” the woman said when Maggie was five months pregnant with Caleb. “Catholic on my mother’s side. Pure dee Catholic. On my father’s, I’m straight up and down Baptist.” At home, his daughters continued to worship him, and his wife grew big with Caleb. When Caleb was two weeks old, Noah told the woman he would not ever come back. The woman shrugged. “Easy come, easy go. A tree has more leaves than I can count. Why cry bout just one leaf fallin away?” He came back before Caleb was two years old and would always believe that it was the return that had doomed him and his boy. God told the Israelites that he would punish men who stole grapes by setting their children’s teeth on edge. Oh, that God. God and his long, punishing fingernails . . . Before Caleb was two and a half, Noah said goodbye to the woman again. Caleb took sick the night of that goodbye. In the ambulance, he held Caleb as the boy shivered and shook, and all the way to the hospital Noah thought his boy would be fine if only the siren would hush and give them some peace. “Can’t you stop that noise?” he said to the driver. “That noise tells folks your son is somebody important, Mister,” the woman said. WEDNESDAY For many nights after Adam’s arrival, Noah had managed to get some three hours of sleep. But Tuesday night he slept for no more than two hours. After lying with his eyes open for an hour and trying to will himself back to sleep, he got up at about two and went quietly out of the room. Maggie had always been able to fall asleep within five minutes of putting her head on the pillow. A woman who had never committed adultery. He stood in the little hallway until his eyes adjusted to the dark. At the door of the children’s room he heard nothing, but he felt that Adam was awake. He took one step into the room and said, “Adam?” “Yes?” “You should be sleepin.” Adam was sitting up in the bed. “You need a lotta sleep.” “Yes.” “Then why don’t you try to get some?” Adam lay down. The man stood for more than fifteen minutes, but the boy did not go to sleep. The air-conditioning began to chill Noah and he finally went to the couch and sat and covered himself with a throw his daughter Laverne had given him for his sixty-fifth birthday. Maggie had been taking Elsa to church each Sunday, and she was planning to take Adam again that Sunday. “It won’t hurt them,” she had told her husband. Noah had not been to church in three years. Would a grandfather going to church give a grandson just a little peace at night? Would God let him live until the children were grown? Could God forgive the adultery? Could God manage that? About three he put his feet up on the couch. At four he went to the refrigerator and got a slice of cheese, the throw around his shoulders. At four-thirty he went in and saw that Adam was asleep. At five he went back for two more slices of cheese and folded them and dipped them into the mayonnaise jar. At a quarter to six the deliveryman dropped the newspaper at his door and Noah opened the door and stood at the threshold with the newspaper in his hand and looked at the metal stairs that led up to the roof. Noah had a lodge brother who seemed to sin every day of his life and nothing bad had ever happened to him. He had died at eighty-five in his sleep beside his seventh wife, in a big house, with his thirteenth child, an infant, sleeping nearby. Noah had been a pallbearer at his funeral. He read the headlines on the front page and heard someone downstairs drop a pan. It was hard thinking about God playing favorites all the time. At the threshold he read the obituaries. TUESDAY Noah rose about six-thirty and yawned as he took in the Washington Post. He had been retired three years, as had Maggie. Coffee with the newspaper alone in the morning kitchen was one thing he looked forward to. He wasn’t much for sports, just liked to read the front and Metro sections to see what bad things the world had done to people. The door to the children’s room was cracked, and as soon as he opened it all the way he saw Adam standing before him, holding the shopping bag. The boy was a heartbreaking sight. He still had on the pajama top, but he was wearing the corduroy pants and tennis shoes of that first day. Noah could see that the shoelaces weren’t properly tied. Adam had an odd alertness about him, as if he had been standing there all night, just waiting for someone to push open the door. “When I’m goin home?” the boy said. He put a little more pep in the words than he had the day before. “You tryin to rile me this early in the mornin, boy? I told you yesterday that you were already home. Thas your room, thas your ceiling, thas your closet, thas your sister, thas your floor. This your grandfather. All yours.” Adam looked about, convinced of nothing. Elsa was sleeping. “Put down that bag.” Noah wanted to shout, thinking that loud words might sink in better than soft ones. “Put it down right now. Put down that bag, I say, and come get some breakfast.” Adam let go of the bag’s handles. “Where your slippers at?” Noah said. Adam looked over to the bed. The slippers were resting neatly together on the floor at the side of the bed. There had been a little boy’s attempt to make the bed and the thing was all lumpy. “Put on them slippers. A man can’t enjoy breakfast in his street shoes.” Adam changed and came back to stand before his grandfather. “Come on and les wash up.” Elsa slept on. He buttered a piece of toast for Adam and set a bowl of Cheerios before him. “Your daddy liked Wheaties,” Noah said, sitting across from Adam and spooning sugar into his coffee. “We bought you some Wheaties just in case.” “The yellow box is nice,” Adam said, pointing to the Cheerios box. “Well, don’t pick a cereal cause of the box. A pretty box could be holdin poison. Get a cereal you like. You like Cheerios?” “Yes.” “Tell me somethin—where is this home you keep talkin about? Whose house is this thas so good you don’t want to be here?” The boy looked at the space next to the plate with his half-eaten toast. “Mama Wilson,” he said. “But I guess she already got some other boy for my bed.” He put down the spoon. “Sooner or later you’re gonna have to learn to trust me and your grandmother. We won’t take away your bed.” “I had a nice bed over her house,” Adam said, finally looking at his grandfather. “She a good mama.” Noah said nothing. Was it too late to find Tamara’s people and give him to them? Why couldn’t Adam be more like Elsa and go along with the program? He had read in the newspaper where all kinds of orphans never got over what had happened to them. Once adopted, they threatened their new siblings and their new parents with death by stabbing. Death in the night. Adoptive parents put locks on their bedroom doors, they took turns staying awake and guarding the door. The children became teen-age criminals, even murderers, and drifted off into their own kind of night, never to return to that good new home. In the newspaper, the parents said they still loved the children, but there was relief between the words. “Good riddance to bad rubbish,” an old white woman Noah knew in South Carolina liked to say about bad people way over there in another county. “It sleeps good,” Adam said of the bed. “She givin it to some other boy right now.” In the end, Noah said, “Eat,” and pointed to the toast and the cereal. Adam followed his grandfather’s hand as the finger pointed and as it retreated and picked up the coffee cup. When the hand was resting in his grandfather’s lap, the boy picked up the toast. FRIDAY The man awoke after a half hour of sleep and sat up in bed, orienting himself. In two months he would be sixty-eight. He got to his exercises, managing seventy-seven pushups but only thirty sit-ups before something told him to stop. As his sweat dried, he pruned the bonsai tree he kept in a special compartment in one of the bedroom windows. The compartment allowed the tree to be in the room and then, with just a turn of its wooden platform, to be outside. And with the press of a button a transparent covering emerged from the side of the compartment to cover the tree outside. The bonsai was a gift from his youngest daughter, who lived in the suburbs of Virginia, where trees with all the life of plastic had been put up to decorate the new developments. Someone had warned him that bonsai trees in people’s homes did not live very long, but his had gone on for more than six years and it had given him unimaginable pleasure. The tree was so small that he could cover it with both hands. A booklet that came with the tree said it had been “trained” for thirty-five years. He had waited the first two years for the tree to wither and die, but it went on and on. Now he believed that it could live forever. In the National Arboretum he and Maggie had seen bonsai trees that had been living—“trained”—for three hundred, four hundred, five hundred years. If them, why not his own? After washing up, he changed from his pajama top to a T-shirt. He peered long into the bathroom mirror, at his father’s and his grandfather’s face. His father had died at seventy-five and his grandfather had made it only to sixty-six. He turned his face this way and that to see if he wanted to shave right then. Last week Elsa had fallen in the playground and cried as if her world were falling apart. He decided to shave because his granddaughter liked smooth cheeks. He left the bathroom and stood just outside the children’s room and listened to them playing. Adam was pretending to be a dog for Elsa. “If you give me a biscuit, I’ll jump over here,” he said. He barked. If only he could be like that all the time. He found Maggie at the stove, singing. The coffee was waiting. He stood watching her. The newspaper was on the edge of the table. A man on the radio was telling him the news. The window was open and he could hear a man and a woman talking. “Why you always so cheerful with all this?” he asked, and fanned his hand to indicate all that was wrong, including Adam. She placed bacon on a plate covered with paper towels and put another towel over it. Then she danced over to him and did three slow twirls. “Because I have you,” she said and twirled back over to the stove. “Don’t you see, Noah, how easy it would be if you were married to you? Your days would be good. See me? Watch me. I’m standing on your shoulders.” She raised herself up on the tips of her toes and looked over as if from the edge of a mountain. She called down into the valley from the mountain, “Nooooaah, thank you.” She settled back on her feet, swaying her hips. “Two eggs or three?” She took an egg in each hand and danced over to him, with her hips still swaying. She kissed him. He put his arms around her and kissed her with such passion that one egg cracked in her hand and she had to place the other one on the newspaper before it, too, cracked. They did not move. She rested her cheek against his chest. He had got lost on his way to the woman’s place that first time. “I’ll have to give you a map for the next time,” she said. “Two eggs, then,” Maggie said. She leaned to the side and found the children watching them. “Hey,” Elsa said. Noah did not move. Adam was holding Elsa’s hand. “Hey yourself,” Maggie said. Elsa pointed to the egg Maggie had crushed against the back of Noah’s robe. “He’s pretty messy that way,” Maggie said to Elsa. Boys, her grandmother mouthed. SUNDAY In the newspaper he read about a mother across the Anacostia River whose eight-year-old son had disappeared. The police told her to go home, that the boy would find his way back. “He’s not a runaway and he stays close to home,” the mother told them. “He’s a good son. He’s a good student. Something must have happened to him.” When the police refused to help, she and her neighbors looked for the boy but could not find him. Finally, with night coming on, a group of former convicts at the neighborhood halfway house—the Light at the End of the Tunnel—gathered to search for the boy. The men found the boy in a little piece of woods with a man who was holding him under a blanket. “I ain’t doin nothin,” the man was reported to have said as one former convict pulled the boy free and another punched the man in the mouth, knocking his jaw far off track. “This is all some big misunderstanding,” the man said through a broken jaw before he was kicked once in the head and twice in the chest. “I can clear this whole mess up.” That was Washington now, Noah thought, that was the world now—people forced to get criminals to do police work. In the evening, the reverend, Colbert Prentiss, called to say he had missed Noah that morning at church. “Saw Maggie and the children,” he began, “but I didn’t see you.” Noah and Colbert had grown up together, had first met at Stevens Elementary. Colbert had also been a pallbearer at Mrs. Waters’s funeral. “I’ll try to make it next time, Colbert.” “You better. I don’t wanna have to stand up in the pulpit and talk about you.” TUESDAY “Listen,” Noah said, sitting on the floor, “why don’t we get rid of this old shoppin bag?” Adam had just asked about going home and had a grip on the edge of the shopping bag. Noah gently shook the bag loose. It was already coming apart and wouldn’t have survived a trip beyond the apartment. Noah tore the bag down to the bottom right through Adam’s name that someone had misspelled. And at the base of the bag he tore some more. Adam sat down, apprehensive. “I’ll tell you what,” Noah said. “You can have one of my suitcases if it makes things easier. If you need something for your things, I’ll give you one a mine. I got one I took to Africa. Your bag only been to D.C. My suitcase been cross the sea and back again over and over.” There were still two shirts in the bag, both shirts at least two sizes too big for the boy. “Mama Wilson gave me this one,” Adam said, picking up the blue shirt. “Well,” Noah said, taking the shirt and tossing it over his shoulder toward the door, “we don’t need somebody else’s shirt, do we?” Adam looked at the shirt. He wanted to go to it, pick it up. “No,” Adam said. He got out the white shirt. “They had this in the home. Another boy got it outa a big box. He got one and he gave me one. It’s a church shirt.” He reached into the muddle of things in the bag and pulled out a clip-on tie. He placed the tie over the front of the shirt lest Noah not know what he meant. “I like the tie, so we’ll keep that. But the shirt . . . the shirt.” “It’s a church shirt,” Adam said. “All right, we’ll keep it for like two years from now when you’ve grown into it.” Noah threw it on top of the blue shirt. Adam said nothing. He was thinking of the phrase “two years from now.” Noah tossed the tie up onto the chest of drawers. Adam went into the bag. “I got this truck at Mama Joyce’s,” he said, and ran a green Matchbox truck back and forth a few inches over the floor. He shook the bag, spreading the things about. He was looking for something, but he couldn’t find it. “She gave me three of em,” he said. “I had two, but this big boy took one, said it was his. But I guess I lost the other one. They ran real good. See?” He gave the green truck to Noah and bade him move it about. Noah did. “Yeah,” the man said. “It runs real good.” Adam pulled a tiny wooden box from the bag. He began tapping on its sides. “It’s a secret box and it won’t open if you don’t do the secret.” After the tapping, he raised the lid slowly, and inside was a desiccated June bug. “We caught this and Bobby put this lady’s thread on his leg and we flew him. Whoosh-whoosh!” He picked the bug up. He offered it to Noah, but Noah shook his head. “It won’t hurt you,” Adam said, putting the bug back in the box. “It won’t hurt. It’s dead.” For the next half hour or so, the boy went through all the things he had acquired, and for each one he had a story. A broken yo-yo that had belonged to a big-toothed boy with broken eyeglasses. A snapshot of him in a group of children; he pointed to each child and gave their full names. None had a parent. A tiny book with just the New Testament. He opened it to where someone had written his name and the day he was given the book. There was even the time of day—11:05 a.m. He flipped a few pages. “I can read these words right there,” he said, and moved his finger along the lines. “The book of the Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Moses, the son of Abraham, the son of God.” He stopped. “Thas all the far we got.” He set the book aside. He picked up two gray stones, hefting them in his right hand. “You can hurt somebody with these. You can make em leave you alone. Here,” and he gave them to Noah and Noah hefted them and dropped them into his shirt pocket. Adam went on and on, and in the end his grandfather said he would build him a shelf for all he had acquired. “You got a picture of your mama and daddy?” “I think I did,” Adam said, and he looked out the window, trying to remember a woman he had last seen walking away from him. He had no memory of Caleb, but in the boy’s mind his father was always smiling, because that was what fathers did. “But I think somebody took it. Maybe Oscar Tremont. He already had a mama and a daddy picture, but he wanted another one.” Noah came to him and put the boy in his lap and they looked out the window together. Adam said, “I ain’t never goin home, huh?” Noah was silent. FRIDAY Noah did eighty-four sit-ups and a hundred and five pushups, then lay down where he was beside the bed, his arms folded under his head. Maggie came into the room and saw him, waited a long time for him to move. He was still. The life insurance was paid up, but she could not remember if the policies were in the apartment or if they had returned them to the bank’s safe-deposit box. She began to count the seconds and still he did not move. If she could survive picking out his casket, then maybe she could make it until after the funeral. There would be no end to the men who would be proud to be his pallbearers, to carry him home. He had been that kind of man. A good father, a good husband, a good grandfather, a good friend. Rest in peace, my love. She went closer and Noah stirred. She had trouble catching her breath. He turned and saw something on her face. He asked, “What’s the matter, honey?” “Nothing.” She herself had been looking forward to seeing India. She knew widowed grandmothers who had been forced to raise grandchildren alone, but she had never thought she could. Noah sat up. “Well, somethin is the matter, cause I can see it on your face.” “Stop doing all those damn exercises, Noah.” She sat at the foot of the bed. “I’m addicted, honey.” He leaned back on his elbows. “Addicted, schmaddicted. Why don’t you stop?” “Look.” He rolled up his pajama sleeve and flexed the muscle. “If I stopped, who would save you from the bad guys? Answer me that. Who would save you?” He scooted closer and offered the muscle to her and she felt it, tried unsuccessfully to press down on it. Noah looked at his arm, at the scars up and down it, and he looked up to see her watching him and rolled his sleeve down. He knew how each scar came to be, could describe the day it all happened and how long the pain had been with him. She got down from the bed onto her knees and he pulled her to him and sat her sideways in the valley that his thighs made with his chest. He kissed her hard, and when they opened their eyes and looked around, Elsa was staring at them, one of her dolls in her hand. The child was blinking but was not impressed one way or the other with what she was seeing. MONDAY At dawn he rose after only fifteen minutes of sleep, with the conversation he had had the evening before with Colbert Prentiss, the preacher, playing over and over in his head. “You ain’t gonna give up on me, are you?” Noah joked. “It ain’t in my nature to give up,” Colbert said. “Give some thought to coming for next Sunday’s grandparents’ day.” Noah did not have it in him to tell his friend that he did not think he would ever return to church. Noah asked before they hung up, “Didn’t God have some responsibility to make nice so people would want to go on worshipping him? Why should it be so one-sided just because he happened to be God?” He left Maggie still asleep and went to the children’s room. Adam was standing in the middle of the floor, waiting, his tennis shoes on but still in his pajamas. Noah dreaded the question, so he jumped in: “Tell me about this home you so anxious to get back to.” Elsa had just awoken and lay in bed with her eyes half open. Noah stood in front of Adam. “Tell me about it. I might wanna go live there myself.” Adam began describing the front yard, a grassless place, as it turned out, “except way over there in the corner.” Elsa got out of bed and began singing and running around her grandfather and her brother. Adam then began talking about Mama Wilson’s downstairs, but as he went on he had to correct himself many times, because he was confusing that woman’s place with many others. “No,” he said, “that big TV wasn’t at Mama Wilson. She had a tiny one. No flowers, neither.” He looked up at Noah, as if hoping the corrections hadn’t done damage to the over-all truth of what he was saying. Noah sat on the floor, and Elsa immediately began climbing about him. Adam sat. In his last weeks at Mama Wilson’s, he managed to say, he had had to share that bed with a boy who screamed in his sleep. Adam waited for his grandfather to say he had never mentioned having to share the bed. Elsa left off her grandfather and began climbing about Adam. “He wasn’t such a bad little boy,” Adam said, “once he stopped all that screamin.” He hesitated, avoided his grandfather’s eyes. “Really. He wasn’t a bad little boy. Really and true.” Noah did not speak. “Honest. He wasn’t a bad boy after the screamin.” THURSDAY Alittle before two that night Noah awoke after a few minutes of sleep and heard tiny voices. At the children’s bedroom door he saw Adam standing at Elsa’s bed, telling her to go back to sleep, that he would keep her safe. “I tell you a story if you go back to sleep,” Adam said. “All little chirren gotta be asleep.” And Elsa said yes, yes, she would sleep for a story, but not no scary story. She lay down and Adam stayed at the side of the bed, pulling the covers up to her shoulders and placing a doll on either side of her. He began telling her about a little girl and a little boy who were driving alone to the beach in a car with bird wings. Noah went into the living room, the boy’s voice still all around him. He did not know which way to turn, but after a long while the voice of Adam led him to the couch. The voice bade him to lie down. Noah covered himself with the throws and listened to the story of the little boy and the little girl going to the beach. It seemed to be a trip that had no end, and Noah kept waiting for them to arrive at the beach. The boy and the girl shared the driving. Sometimes they lost their way and squirrels with cowboy hats and boots had to drop from trees onto the hood of the car and tell them which way to go. There were mothers and fathers standing in Easter baskets along the road to the beach, and other children who were going places in their own cars—to the circus, to the movies. But no one except the boy and the girl were going to the beach. “Can they come, too?” Elsa asked. “Tomorrow,” Adam said, “but not right now.” Noah began to fall asleep at the point where the girl was behind the ice-cream steering wheel and it began dripping on her new tennis shoes. “I can’t drive with them dirty tennis shoes,” the girl told the boy. “I can’t, I can’t, I can’t.” In a dream Noah applied cold hands to the ice-cream wheel and it froze over again. The boy thanked him and the girl thanked him, but when Noah asked about a short ride on up the road, the little girl said no. “First you,” the girl said, biting into the chocolate wheel, “then all them other people will wanna ride, too. We gotta put a stop to this thing right here and now.” As they drove off, the boy stuck his head out the window and said to Noah, “I come back for you way before the by-and-by. O.K.?” Noah had watched his father putting on his tie not two days after they had arrived in Washington. His father’s first job was as a dishwasher at the Willard Hotel. His mother had straightened his father’s tie seconds before he walked out the door. “A man,” his father said as he sat his new hat atop his head, “must do what a man must do.” When Noah woke again, it was nearly three o’clock and Adam was still talking. The boy in the story was driving up a mountain. “Don’t go too fast,” the girl told the boy. “We gotta save on the gas. Gas expensive. Five dollars.” Noah turned on his side, and in no time at all he was asleep again. He was never to know when Adam went back to bed. In the dream, Noah began begging for a ride as the car came to a stop. The girl was a lost cause, he could tell that just by the confident way she had gripped the ice-cream wheel, but Noah, turning his pockets inside out to show how empty they were, began to plead his case before the boy. “Just a short ride on up the road,” Noah told the boy. “We’ll come back for you,” the boy said, starting up the motor, “and when we do you must be ready.” SUNDAY That last Sunday in August was grandparents’ day at church and Noah, at the final moment, decided to go with them. “You sure you know the way?” Maggie said before they set off. Something compelled Colbert Prentiss to depart from his text near the end of his sermon that morning. It might have been all the grandparents he saw before him, all the people who had struggled into old age only to find themselves parents once again. Clement Carson. Mr. and Mrs. Harrelson. The widow Anderson. Colbert’s own sister and brother-in-law. Mr. and Mrs. Apacka. Maggie and Noah Robinson. All of them the kind of people the preacher had built his rock on. The world was turned upside down when the mature ones were forced to do what the younger ones should be doing. Indeed, it was August, so why not have it snow outside, Colbert said to the hundreds. Why not lift our eyes to the sky and see all the pigs flying with their cherub wings? He had the grandparents and their grandchildren stand and apologized to any who might have a touch of the shyness fever. He told his congregation that the people standing would lead them all out into a better day. The people sitting applauded. Maggie helped Elsa stand up on the seat. Noah looked at those standing. Clement’s three grandsons were not wearing suits, just white shirts and ties and dark pants. They were all taller than their grandfather. He found Mrs. Anderson’s granddaughter across the aisle looking at him and he smiled at her, but she did not smile back. She blinked once and looked ahead. Noah’s son Caleb had had a hard time sitting still in church, was forever turning and staring at what was about him. Noah looked down at the top of Adam’s head. The crown had the same tuft of hair his son’s had had. The barber always had a tough time mowing it down. “Should charge you extra for that bit a hair, Noah, but maybe I’ll let it slide,” the barber always said. And Noah would say, “You charge me the regular for the regular hair. Any damage after that and Caleb gonna pay.” The congregation began singing “The Blind Man Stood in the Road and Cried.” The spiritual ended and everyone sat down and Adam looked up at Noah, sensing his grandfather’s eyes on him. Elsa curled up in Maggie’s lap and soon went to sleep, one arm stretched out to the wooden pocket on the back of the pew in front of them. The congregation sang “I Done Done What Ya Told Me to Do.” Without even thinking about it, Noah pulled Adam close to him and they looked at the words in the book and Adam began to cry. The boy put one hand behind his grandfather’s back and grabbed hold of his suit coat as best he could. Still crying, he went over the words in the book with his finger. It was an old trick of an old boy: if you pretended to read, maybe they wouldn’t notice that you really couldn’t. Adam held on to Noah’s coat, for he knew it was possible for people to rise up and disappear out of his life. He could not then know that Noah had already told God that he planned to live forever. Why should eternal life be only for bonsai trees? Why should men, the greatest glory of God, come second to trees? Noah placed his hand over Adam’s as it went over the words in the book. Adam grabbed more of the coat and it was then that Noah, feeling himself go light as a blossom in the wind, leaned down and anchored his lips to that difficult tuft of the boy’s hair. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Disaster Stamps of Pluto	The dead of Pluto now outnumber the living, and the cemetery stretches up the low hill east of town in a jagged display of white stone. There is no bar, no theatre, no hardware store, no creamery or car repair, just a gas pump. Even the priest comes to the church only once a month. The grass is barely mowed in time for his visit, and of course there are no flowers planted. But when the priest does come, there is at least one more person for the town café to feed. That there is a town café is something of a surprise, and it is no run-down questionable edifice. When the bank pulled out, the family whose drive-in was destroyed by heavy winds bought the building with their insurance money. The granite façade, arched windows, and twenty-foot ceilings make the café seem solid and even luxurious. There is a blackboard for specials and a cigar box by the cash register for the extra change that people might donate to the hospital care of a local boy who was piteously hurt in a farming accident. I spend a good part of my day, as do most of the people left here, in a booth at the café. For now that there is no point in keeping up our municipal buildings, the café serves as office space for town-council and hobby-club members, church-society and card-playing groups. It is an informal staging area for shopping trips to the nearest mall—sixty-eight miles south—and a place for the town’s few young mothers to meet and talk, pushing their car-seat-convertible strollers back and forth with one foot while hooting and swearing as intensely as their husbands, down at the other end of the row of booths. Those left spouseless or childless, owing to war or distance or attrition, eat here. Also divorced or single persons like myself who, for one reason or another, have ended up with a house in Pluto, North Dakota, their only major possession. We are still here because to sell our houses for a fraction of their original price would leave us renters for life in the world outside. Yet, however tenaciously we cling to yards and living rooms and garages, the grip of one or two of us is broken every year. We are growing fewer. Our town is dying. And I am in charge of more than I bargained for when, in 1991, in the year of my retirement from medicine, I was elected president of Pluto’s historical society. At the time, it looked as though we might survive, if not flourish, well into the next millennium. But then came the flood of 1997, followed by the cost of rebuilding. Smalls’ bearing works and the farm-implement dealership moved east. We were left with flaxseed and sunflowers, but cheap transport via the interstate had pretty much knocked us out of the game already. So we have begun to steadily diminish, and, as we do, I am becoming the repository of many untold stories such as people will finally tell when they know that there is no use in keeping secrets, or when they realize that all that’s left of a place will one day reside in documents, and they want those papers to reflect the truth. My old high-school friend Neve Harp, salutatorian of the class of 1942 and fellow historical-society member, is one of the last of the original founding families. She is the granddaughter of the speculator and surveyor Frank Harp, who came with members of the Dakota and Great Northern Townsite Company to establish a chain of towns along the Great Northern tracks. They hoped to profit, of course. These townsites were meticulously drawn up into maps for risktakers who would purchase lots for their businesses or homes. Farmers in every direction would buy their supplies in town and patronize the entertainment spots when they came to ship their harvests via rail. The platting crew moved by wagon and camped where they all agreed some natural feature of the landscape or general distance from other towns made a new town desirable. When the men reached the site of what is now our town, they’d already been platting and mapping for several years and in naming their sites had used up the few words they knew of Sioux or Chippewa, presidents and foreign capitals, important minerals, great statesmen, and the names of their girlfriends and wives. The Greek and Roman gods intrigued them. To the east lay the neatly marked out townsites of Zeus, Neptune, Apollo, and Athena. They rejected Venus as conducive, perhaps, to future debauchery. Frank Harp suggested Pluto, and it was accepted before anyone realized they’d named a town for the god of the underworld. This occurred in the boom year of 1906, twenty-four years before the planet Pluto was discovered. It is not without irony now that the planet is the coldest, the loneliest, and perhaps the least hospitable in our solar system—but that was never, of course, intended to reflect upon our little municipality. Dramas of great note have occurred in Pluto. In 1924, five members of a family—the parents, a teen-age girl, an eight- and a four-year-old boy—were murdered. A neighbor boy, apparently deranged with love over the daughter, vanished, and so remained the only suspect. Of that family, but one survived—a seven-month-old baby, who slept through the violence in a crib wedged unobtrusively behind a bed. In 1934, the National Bank of Pluto was robbed of seventeen thousand dollars. In 1936, the president of the bank tried to flee the country with most of the town’s money. He intended to travel to Brazil. His brother followed him as far as New York and persuaded him to return, and most of the money was restored. By visiting each customer personally, the brother convinced them all that their accounts were now safe, and the bank survived. The president, however, killed himself. The brother took over the job. At the very apex of the town cemetery hill, there is a war memorial. In 1951, seventeen names were carved into a chunk of granite that was dedicated to the heroes of both world wars. One of the names was that of the boy who is generally believed to have murdered the family, the one who vanished from Pluto shortly after the bodies were discovered. He enlisted in Canada, and when notice of his death reached his aunt—who was married to a town-council member and had not wanted to move away, as the mother and father of the suspect did—the aunt insisted that his name be added to the list of the honorable dead. But unknown community members chipped it out of the stone, so that now a rough spot is all that marks his death, and on Veterans Day only sixteen flags are set into the ground around that rock. There were droughts and freak accidents and other crimes of passion, and there were good things that happened, too. The seven-month-old baby who survived the murders was adopted by the aunt of the killer, who raised her in pampered love and, at great expense, sent her away to an Eastern college, never expecting that she would return. When she did, nine years later, she was a doctor—the first female doctor in the region. She set up her practice in town and restored the house she had inherited, where the murders had taken place—a small, charming clapboard farmhouse that sits on the eastern edge of town. Six hundred and forty acres of farmland stretch east from the house and barn. With the lease money from those acres, she was able to maintain a clinic and a nurse, and to keep her practice going even when her patients could not always pay for her services. She never married, but for a time she had a lover, a college professor and swim coach whose job did not permit him to leave the university. She had always understood that he would move to Pluto once he retired. But instead he married a girl much younger than himself and moved to Southern California, where he could have a year-round outdoor swimming pool. Murdo Harp was the name of the brother of the suicide banker. He was the son of the town’s surveyor and the father of my friend. Neve is now an octogenarian like me; she and I take daily walks to keep our joints oiled. Neve Harp was married three times, but has returned to her maiden name and the house she inherited from her father. She is a tall woman, somewhat stooped for lack of calcium in her diet, although on my advice she now ingests plenty. Every day, no matter what the weather (up to blizzard conditions), we take our two- or three-mile walk around the perimeter of Pluto. “We orbit like an ancient couple of moons,” she said to me one day. “If there were people in Pluto, they could set their clocks by us,” I answered. “Or worship us.” We laughed to think of ourselves as moon goddesses. Most of the yards and lots are empty. For years, there has been no money in the town coffers for the streets, and the majority have been unimproved or left to gravel. Only the main street is paved with asphalt now, but the rough surfaces are fine with us. They give more purchase. Breaking a hip is our gravest dread—once you are immobile at our age, that is the end. Our conversations slide through time, and we dwell often on setting straight the town record. I think we’ve sifted through every town occurrence by now, but perhaps when it comes to our own stories there is something left to know. Neve surprised me one day. “I’ve been meaning to tell you why Murdo’s brother, my uncle Octave, tried to run away to Brazil,” she told me, as though the scandal had just occurred. “We should write the whole thing up for the historical newsletter.” I asked Neve to wait until we had finished our walk and sat down at the café, so that I could take notes, but she was so excited by the story beating its wings inside her—for some reason so alive and insistent that morning—that she had to talk as we made our way along. Her white hair swirled in wisps from its clip. Her features seemed to have sharpened. Neve has always been angular and imposing. I’ve been her foil. Her best audience. The one who absorbs the overflow of her excitements and pains. “As you remember,” Neve said, “Octave drowned himself when the river was at its lowest, in only two feet of water. He basically had to throw himself upon a puddle and breathe it in. It was thought that only a woman could have caused a man to inflict such a gruesome death upon himself, but it was not love. He did not die for love.” Neve jabbed a finger at me, as though I’d been the one who kept the myth of Octave’s passion alive. We walked meditatively on for about a hundred yards. Then she began again. “Do you remember stamp collections? How important those were? The rage?” I said that I did remember. People still collect stamps, I told her. “But not like they did then, not like Octave,” she said. “My uncle had a stamp collection that he kept in the bank’s main vault. One of this town’s best-kept secrets is exactly how much money that collection was worth. When the bank was robbed in ’34, the robbers forced their way into the vault. They grabbed what cash there was and completely ignored the fifty-nine albums and twenty-two specially constructed display boxes framed in ebony. That stamp collection was worth many times what the robbers got. It was worth almost as much money as was in the entire bank, in fact.” “What happened to it?” I was intrigued, as I hadn’t known any of this. Neve gave me a sly sideways look. “I kept it when the bank changed hands. I like looking at the stamps, you see—they’re better than television. I’ve decided to sell the whole thing, and that’s why I’m telling the story now. The collection is in my front room. Stacked on a table. You’ve seen the albums, but you’ve never commented. You’ve never looked inside them. If you had, you would have been enchanted, like me, with the delicacy, the detail, and the endless variety. You would have wanted to know more about the stamps themselves, and the need to know and understand their histories would have taken hold of you, as it did my uncle and as it has me, though thankfully to a much lesser degree. Of course, you have your own interests.” “Yes,” I said. “Thank God for those.” I would be typing out and editing Neve’s story for the next month. As we passed the church, we saw the priest there on his monthly visit. The poor man waved at us when we called out a greeting. No one had remembered, so he was cutting the grass. His parish was four or six combined now. “They treat the good ones like simple beasts,” Neve said. Then she shrugged and we pressed on. “My uncle’s specialty, for all stamp collectors begin at some point to lean in a certain direction, was what you might call the dark side of stamp collecting.” I looked at Neve, whose excitements tend to take a shady turn, and thought that she had inherited her uncle’s twist of mind along with his collection. “After he had acquired the Holy Grails of philately—British Guiana’s one-cent magenta, and the one-cent Z Grill—as well as the merely intriguing—for instance, Sweden’s 1855 three-cent issue, which is orange instead of blue-green, and many stamps of the Thurn und Taxis postal system and superb specimens of the highly prized Mulready cover—my uncle’s melancholia drew him specifically to what are called ‘errors.’ I think Sweden’s three-cent began it all.” “Of course,” I said, “even I know about the upside-down airplane stamp.” “The twenty-four-cent carmine-rose-and-blue invert. The Jenny. Yes!” She seemed delighted. “He began to collect errors in color, like the Swedish stamp, very tricky, then overprints, imperforate errors, value missings, omitted vignettes, and freaks. He has one entire album devoted to the seventeen-year-old boy Frank Baptist, who ran off stamps on an old handpress for the Confederate government.” Neve charged across a gravelly patch of road, and I hastened to stay within earshot. Stopping to catch her breath, she leaned on a tree and told me that, about six years before he absconded with the bank’s money, Octave Harp had gone into disasters—that is, stamps and covers, or envelopes, that had survived the dreadful occurrences that test or destroy us. These pieces of mail, water-stained, tattered, even bloodied, marked by experience, took their value from the gravity of their condition. Such damage was part of their allure. By then, we had arrived at the café, and I was glad to sit down and take a few notes on Neve’s revelations. I borrowed some paper and a pen from the owner, and we ordered our coffee and sandwiches. I always have a Denver sandwich and Neve orders a B.L.T. without the bacon. She is a strict vegetarian, the only one in Pluto. We sipped our coffee. “I have a book,” Neve said, “on philately, in which it says that stamp collecting offers refuge to the confused and gives new vigor to fallen spirits. I think Octave was hoping he would find something of the sort. But my father told me that the more he dwelt on the disasters the worse he felt. He would brighten whenever he obtained something valuable for his collection, though. He was in touch with people all over the globe—it was quite remarkable. I’ve got files and files of his correspondence with stamp dealers. He would spend years tracking down a surviving stamp or cover that had been through a particular disaster. Wars, of course, from the American Revolution to the Crimean War and the First World War. Soldiers frequently carry letters on their person, and one doesn’t like to think how those letters ended up in the hands of collectors. But Octave preferred natural disasters and, to a lesser extent, man-made accidents.” Neve tapped the side of her cup. “He would have been fascinated by the Hindenburg, and certainly there would have been a stamp or two involved, somewhere. And our modern disasters, too, of course.” I knew what she was thinking of, suddenly—those countless fluttering, strangely cheerful papers drifting through the sky in New York… . I went cold with dismay at the thought that many of those bits of paper were perhaps now in the hands of dealers who were selling them all over the world to people like Octave. Neve and I think very much alike, and I saw that she was about to sugar her coffee—a sign of distress. She has a bit of a blood-sugar problem. “Don’t,” I said. “You’ll be awake all night.” “I know.” She did it anyway, then set the glass cannister back on the table. “Isn’t it strange, though, how time mutes the horror of events, how they cease to affect us in the same way? But I began to tell you all of this in order to explain why Octave left for Brazil.” “With so much money. Now I’m starting to imagine he was on the trail of a stamp.” “You’re exactly right,” Neve said. “My father told me what Octave was looking for. As I said, he was fascinated with natural disasters, and in his collection he had a letter that had survived the explosion of Krakatoa in 1883, a Dutch postmark placed upon a letter written just before and carried off on a steamer. He had a letter from the sack of mail frozen onto the back of a New Hampshire mail carrier who died in the East Coast blizzard of 1888. An authenticated letter from the Titanic’s seagoing post office, too, but then there must have been quite a lot of mail recovered for some reason, as he refers to other pieces. But he was not as interested in sea disasters. No, the prize he was after was a letter from the year 79 A.D.” I hadn’t known there was mail service then, but Neve assured me that mail was extremely old, and that it was Herodotus whose words appeared in the motto “Neither snow, nor rain, nor gloom of night,” etc., more than three hundred years before the date she’d just referred to—the year Mt. Vesuvius blew up and buried Pompeii in volcanic ash. “As you may know,” she went on, “the site was looted and picked through by curiosity seekers for a century and a half after its rediscovery before anything was done about preservation. By then, quite a number of recovered objects had found their way into the hands of collectors. A letter that may have been meant for Pliny the Younger, from the Elder, apparently surfaced for a tantalizing moment in Paris, but by the time Octave could contact the dealer the prize had been stolen. The dealer tracked it, however, through a shadowy resale into the hands of a Portuguese rubber baron’s wife, who was living in Brazil, a woman with obsessions similar to Octave’s—though she was not a stamp collector. She was interested in all things Pompeian—had her walls painted in exact replicas of Pompeii frescoes, and so on.” “Imagine that. In Brazil.” “No stranger than a small-town North Dakota banker amassing a world-class collection of stamps. Octave was, of course, a bachelor. And he lived very modestly, too. Still, he didn’t have enough money to come near to purchasing the Pliny letter. He tried to leave the country with the bank’s money and his stamp collection, but the stamps held him back. I think the customs officials became involved in questions regarding the collection—whether it should be allowed to leave the country, and so on. The Frank Baptist stamps were an interesting side note to American history, for instance. Murdo caught up with him a few days later, and Octave had had a breakdown and was paralyzed in some hotel room. He was terrified that his collection would be confiscated. When he returned to Pluto, he began drinking heavily, and from then on he was a wreck.” “And the Pompeii letter—what became of it?” “There was a letter from the Brazilian lady, who still hoped to sell the piece to Octave, a wild letter full of cross-outs and stained with tears.” “A disaster letter?” “Yes, I suppose you could say so. Her three-year-old son had somehow got hold of the Pompeii missive and reduced it to dust. So in a way it was a letter from a woman that broke Octave’s heart.” There was nothing more to say, and we were both in a thoughtful mood by then. Our sandwiches were before us and we ate them. Neve and I spend our evenings quietly, indoors, reading or watching television, listening to music, eating our meagre suppers alone. As I have been long accustomed to my own company, I find my time from dusk to midnight wonderful. I am not lonely. I know I haven’t long to enjoy the luxuries of privacy and silence, and I cherish my familiar surroundings. Neve, however, misses her two children and her grandchildren. She spends many evenings on the telephone, although they live in Fargo and she sees them often. Both Neve and I find it strange that we are old, and we are amazed at how quickly our lives passed—Neve with her marriages and I with my medical practice. We are even surprised when we catch sight of ourselves sometimes. I am fortunate in old age to have a good companion like Neve, though I have lately suspected that if she had the chance to leave Pluto she would do it. That night, she had an episode of black moodiness, brought on by the sugar in her coffee, though I did not say so. She was still caught up in the telling of Octave’s story, and she had also made an odd discovery. Flanked by two bright reading lamps, I was quietly absorbing a rather too sweet novel sent by a book club that I belong to when the telephone rang. Speaking breathlessly, Neve told me that she had been looking through albums all evening with a magnifying glass. She had also been sifting through Octave’s papers and letters. She had found something that distressed her: In a file that she had never before opened was a set of eight or nine letters, all addressed to the same person, with cancelled stamps, the paper distorted as though it had got wet, the writing smudged, each stamp differing from the others by some slight degree—a minor flaw in the cancellation mark, a slight rip. She had examined them in some puzzlement and noticed that one bore a fifty-cent violet Benjamin Franklin issued two years after the cancellation mark, which was dated just before the sinking of the Titanic. “I am finding it very hard to admit the obvious,” she said, “because I had formed such a sympathetic opinion of my uncle. But I believe he must have been experimenting with forged disaster mail, and that what I found was no less than evidence. He was offering his fake letter to a dealer in London. There were attempts and rejections of certification letters, too.” She sounded furious, as though he had tried to sell her the item himself. I tried to talk Neve down, but when she gets into a mood like this all of her rages and sorrows come back to her and it seems she must berate the world or mourn each one. From what she could tell, all the other articles in Octave’s collection were authentic, so after a while she calmed herself. She even laughed a bit, wondering if Octave’s forgery would hold up if included in the context of an otherwise brilliant collection. “It could improve the price,” she said. As soon as possible, I put the phone down, and my insipid novel as well. Neve’s moods are catching. I have a notion I will soon be alone in Pluto. I try to shake off a sudden miasma of turbulent dread, but before I know it I have walked into my bedroom and am opening the chest at the foot of my bed and I am looking through my family’s clothes—all else was destroyed or taken away, but the undertaker washed and kept these (kindly, I think) and he gave them to me when I moved into this house. I find the sombre envelope marked “Jorghansen’s Funeral Parlor” and slip from it the valentine, within its own envelope, that must have been hidden in a pocket. It may or may not be stained with blood, or rust, but it is most certainly a hideous thing, all schmaltz and paper lace. I note for the first time that the envelope bears a five-cent commemorative stamp of the Huguenot monument in Florida. Sometimes I wonder if the sounds of fear and anguish, the thunder of the shotgun, is hidden from me somewhere in the most obscure corner of my brain. I might have died of dehydration, as I wasn’t found for three days, but I don’t remember that, either, not at all, and have never been abnormally afraid of thirst or obsessed with food or water. No, my childhood was very happy and I had everything—a swing, a puppy, doting parents. Only good things happened to me. I was chosen Queen of the Prom. I never underwent a shock at the sudden revelation of my origins, for I was told the story early on and came to accept who I was. We even suspected that the actual killer might still be living somewhere in our area, invisible, remorseful. For we’d find small, carefully folded bills of cash hidden outdoors in places where my aunt or I would be certain to find them—beneath a flowerpot, in my tree house, in the hollow handles of my bicycle—and we’d always hold the wadded squares up and say, “He’s been here again.” But, truly, I am hard pressed to name more than the predictable sadnesses that pass through one’s life. It is as though the freak of my survival charged my disposition with gratitude. Or as if my family absorbed all the misfortune that might have come my way. I have lived an ordinary and a satisfying life, and I have been privileged to be of service to people. There is no one I mourn to the point of madness and nothing I would really do over again. So why, when I stroke my sister’s valentine against the side of my face, and why, when I touch the folded linen of her vest, and when I reach for my brothers’ overalls and the apron my mother died in that day, and bundle these things to my stomach together with my father’s ancient, laundered, hay-smelling clothes, why, when I gather my family into my arms, do I catch my breath at the wild upsurge, as if a wind had lifted me, a black wing of air? And why, when that happens, do I fly toward some blurred and ineradicable set of features that seems to rush away from me as stars do? At blinding speeds, never stopping? When Pluto is empty at last and this house is reclaimed by earth, when the war memorial is toppled and the bank/café stripped for its brass and granite, when all that remains of our town is a collection of historical newsletters bound in volumes donated to the regional collections at the University of North Dakota, what then? What shall I have said? How shall I have depicted the truth? The valentine tells me that the boy’s name should not have been scratched from the war memorial, that he was not the killer after all. For my sister loved him in return, or she would not have carried his message upon her person. And if he had had her love he probably fled out of grief and despair, not remorse or fear of prosecution. But if it was not the boy, who was it? My father? But no, he was felled from behind. There is no one to accuse. Somewhere in this town or out in the world, then, the being has existed who stalked the boys hiding in the barn and destroyed them in the hay, who saw the beauty of my sister and my mother and shot them dead. And to what profit? For nothing was taken. Nothing gained. To what end the mysterious waste? An extremely touchy case came my way about twenty years ago, and I have submerged the knowledge of its truth. I have never wanted to think of it. But now, as with Neve, my story knocks with insistence, and I remember my patient. He was a hired man who’d lived his life on a stock farm that abutted the farthest edges of our land. Warren Wolde was a taciturn crank, who nevertheless had a way with animals. He held a number of peculiar beliefs, I am told, regarding the United States government. On these topics, his opinion was avoided. Certain things were never mentioned around him—Congress being one, and particular amendments to the Constitution. Even if one stuck to safe subjects, he looked at people in a penetrating way that they found disquieting. But Warren Wolde was in no condition to disquiet me when I came onto the farm to treat him. Two weeks before, the farm’s expensive blooded bull had hooked and then trampled him, concentrating most of the damage on one leg. He’d refused to see a doctor, and now a feverish infection had set in and the wound was necrotic. He was very strong, and fought being moved to a hospital so violently that his employers had decided to call me instead to see if I could save his leg. I could, and did, though the means were painful and awful and it meant twice-daily visits, which my schedule could ill afford. At each change of the dressing and debridement, I tried to dose Wolde with morphine, but he resisted. He did not trust me yet and feared that if he lost consciousness he’d wake without his leg. Gradually, I managed to heal the wound and also to quiet him. When I first came to treat him, he’d reacted to the sight of me with a horror unprecedented in my medical experience. It was a fear mixed with panic that had only gradually dulled to a silent wariness. As his leg healed, he opened to my visits, and by the time he was hobbling on crutches he seemed to anticipate my presence with an eager pleasure so tender and pathetic that it startled everyone around him. He’d shuck off his forbidding and strange persona just for me, they said, and sink back into an immobilizing fury once I’d left. He never healed quite enough to take on all of his old tasks, but he lasted pretty well at his job for another three years. He died naturally, in his sleep one night, of a thrown blood clot. To my surprise, I was contacted several weeks later by a lawyer. The man said that his client Warren Wolde had left a package for me, which I asked him to send in the mail. When the package arrived, addressed in an awkward script that certainly could have been Wolde’s, I opened the box immediately. Inside were hundreds upon hundreds of wadded bills of assorted denominations, and of course I recognized their folded pattern as identical to the bills that had turned up for me all through my childhood. I could perhaps believe that the money gifts and the legacy were only marks of sympathy for the tragic star of my past and, later, gratitude for what I’d done. I might be inclined to think that, were it not for the first few times I had come to treat Wolde, when he reared from me in a horror that seemed so personal. There had been something of a recalled nightmare in his face, I’d thought it even then, and I was not touched later on by the remarkable change in his character. On the contrary, it chilled me to sickness. Those of you who have faithfully subscribed to this newsletter know that our dwindling subscription list has made it necessary to reduce the length of our articles. So I must end here. But it appears, anyway, that since only the society’s treasurer, Neve Harp, and I have convened to make any decisions at all regarding the preservation and upkeep of our little collection, and as only the two of us are left to contribute more material to this record, and as we have nothing left to say, our membership is now closed. We declare our society defunct. I shall, at least, keep walking the perimeter of Pluto until my footsteps wear my orbit into the earth. My last act as the president of Pluto’s historical society is this: I would like to declare a town holiday to commemorate the year I saved the life of my family’s murderer. The wind will blow. The devils rise. All who celebrate it shall be ghosts. And there will be nothing but eternal dancing, dust on dust, everywhere you look. Oh my, too apocalyptic, I think as I leave my house to walk over to Neve’s to help her cope with her sleepless night. She will soon move to Fargo. She’ll have the money to do it. Dust on dust! There are very few towns where old women can go out at night and enjoy the breeze, so there is that about Pluto. I take my cane to feel the way, for the air is so black I think already I am invisible. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Joke	If he went now, he’d never come back. He’d go and she wouldn’t know, or care. He’d come back and the same thing: she wouldn’t care. So what was the point? He wasn’t going anywhere. And that made it worse. And made him more annoyed. And angry. And stupid. This thing now. It was nothing. The thing itself. —No, no. He’ll come and collect you. That was it. What she had said, word for word. What had him half standing, still sitting, his fat arse hanging over the armchair. His arse wasn’t fat. But there was more of it than there used to be. Not that much more. Anyway. They were the words. —No, no. He’ll come and collect you. The words themselves were harmless. She hadn’t even been talking to him. But that, there, was the point. She hadn’t been talking to him. She’d been talking to someone else. She still was. On the phone. He didn’t know who. Her sister, her ma, his ma. They were the even-money bets. But it could have been anyone. Her friend the adultery woman was another prospect. She was a three-to-one bet. He wasn’t a betting man. Never had been. She was out in the kitchen; he didn’t know who she was talking to. But he did know that she’d just offered his services to whoever it was at the other end. —No, no. He’ll come and collect you. And that was the thing. And had been the thing for a long time. And he was sick of it. Sick of what but? He wasn’t sure. The whole thing. Everything. He was just sick of it. The invisible fuckin’ man. —No, no. He’ll come and collect you. That was who he was. What he was. The invisible man. The taken-for-granted sap. As if he was just waiting there. With nothing better to do. Granted, he was doing nothing. But that wasn’t the point. No way was it. He’d been sitting there, doing nothing in particular. But it didn’t matter. If he’d been climbing Mt. Everest or upstairs in the bed, it didn’t matter. It didn’t bloody matter what he was or wasn’t doing. It was the fact, the thing. He didn’t know how to— Just hearing it. He was sick of it. And he couldn’t say anything. Because it was so small. He could never explain it without being mean or selfish or other things that he really wasn’t. Her friend, for example. The adultery woman. They’d been friends for years. A good-looking woman. Didn’t nearly look her age. And the adultery thing wasn’t fair. He wasn’t judging. He didn’t; he never had. Anyway. He’d been there when she’d left her husband. He’d helped her load the car, his car, with her bags and her two kids and all of their stuff. While the husband was at work, or wherever—the pub; he didn’t know. And he was glad he’d done it. It had been the right thing to do. He’d never doubted it. Not once. Or resented it, or anything. The husband was a bollix, an animal. She was well out of that situation. And he wouldn’t have cared if the husband had come after him. The woman’s jaw was strapped and broken, as she sat beside him in the car. The kids in the back were pale. It had been a good deed, that one. He’d felt a bit heroic. The wife had hugged him, kissed him, thanked him again and again. That was the biggest example. The most dramatic. He wasn’t making his point. He was missing it. A better example. Her mother. Not such a bad oul’ one. Harmless, really, once you knew her. Anyway, he’d gone out in the pissing rain to bring her home from her bingo. More than once, and no problem. He’d been happy to do it; he’d do it again. And her sister. He’d brought her twenty Silk Cut when she was stuck at home with her broken leg. And a choc-ice. Errands of mercy. He’d been doing them for years. And here—good—here was the point. Not once, not once—none of them had ever asked him. She was still on the phone. —Yeah, I know, yeah. God. Not once. Fair enough, they’d all said thanks. You’re great. You’re a star. I don’t know where I’d be without you. And that was fine. And appreciated. But none of them had ever phoned and asked to speak to him. Not once. Ever. And it wasn’t just that. It was— Fuckin’ everything. He was sick of it. But he sat down again. His arms were getting sore, holding himself over the seat. But he hadn’t changed his mind. He could still get back up; he would. She was still on the phone. It wasn’t urgent, whatever it was. He had to clear his head. He had to be clear. He was going to say no when she came looking for him. He had to know why. It went back. Back, back, back. Ah, Jesus—years. His fault. He accepted that. Yeah. His own fault. So. But it wasn’t about the errands of mercy. She’d called them that. It wasn’t just them. He had to be clear. He’d liked it; he remembered. When she’d said that about errands of mercy. She was drying his hair with a towel. She sat on his lap. One leg each side of his legs, right up at him. He still had his hair. Most of it. Lap was a stupid word. He loved her. That was important. Back. Give and take. There’d once been that. Partnership. That was what he’d have called it, although he didn’t like that word, either. Partnership. Give and take. He brought her ma home from bingo; she sat on his lap. But that wasn’t it; that just cheapened it. It wasn’t about the sex. But— That, too. Yeah, definitely. How, but—? How was he going to get his point across without making it look like it was all about sex when it wasn’t but, in a way, it was? He’d deal with it. Anyway. Partnership. It had all been part of it. The relationship—another fuckin’ word. They’d done things together. Even when they weren’t together. He’d do the driving or the shop, clean the windows, whatever. But they’d both be involved. They’d done these things together. That was how it had felt. How it had been. Something had happened. Nothing had happened. It had just happened. The way things were now. She was still in there, on the phone. He could hear her agreeing and disagreeing, with whoever. Listening, nodding. Putting her hair behind her ear. He still loved her. And the partnership had stopped. Somewhere. He could never have pinned it down; he’d no idea. There’d been nothing said. Nothing done. As far as he knew. But who knew? It was a mess. He was. A mess. His anger. Moods. He wanted to reach out. In the bed. And he couldn’t. It wasn’t there; he couldn’t do it. He couldn’t lift his hand and move it, a foot, a foot and a half—less. He couldn’t do it. What had happened? What had happened? He didn’t know. He honestly didn’t. He didn’t know. It was a good, big telly, one of the wide-screen ones. He’d thought they could watch it together. At least that. When he’d bought it. He was older. Fuck that, so was she. That wasn’t it. He didn’t think it was. They’d never spoken about it. What? He didn’t know. The change. The stop. He didn’t know. The partnership. Fuck it, the marriage. And it wasn’t true about the sex, either, exactly. They still had it, did it. Now and again. The odd time. The hands would meet. The warmth. What was he going to say? When she came in? She was still in there, in the kitchen. Still chatting. He was right but. Essentially, he was right. It was gone. Something had gone wrong. Something small. Something that he hadn’t even noticed. It had changed. She couldn’t deny it. And would she? Deny it? He hadn’t a clue. He used to know. He used to guess right, more often than not. What she’d say. How she’d react. They’d smile at each other, because they both knew what they were up to. She’d slap his arse when he passed. He’d put his hand on her hair. Words hadn’t mattered; she’d known what he meant. I love you. I like you. I’m glad. I love you. I like you. I’m glad. That was it. He used to—he could tell when she was going to say something. Before she did. Something in the air, in the atmosphere. He didn’t have to be looking at her. He knew. And she did, too. And he’d liked being read that way. He didn’t know when it had stopped. The reading. He didn’t know. Maybe they still could read each other’s thoughts; they just didn’t. He didn’t know; he didn’t think so. He didn’t know her. He knew her but he didn’t know her. It had been a slow thing. Very gradual. He hadn’t noticed. That wasn’t true. He had. He’d noticed. But he’d done nothing. What? Jesus, it was terrible. Stupid. He was angry. He was always angry. He was always angry. He lay awake, he woke early. It was always there. He didn’t know why. Nothing had happened. Nothing big. His fault. He should have known. It was there a long time, the difference. The silence. He’d known. They’d never had a row. That was true, more or less. There’d never been anything serious. Small stuff. Missing keys, her ma at Christmas. Nothing big. Fundamental. Neither of them had ever stormed out or packed a bag. They’d never shouted or broken anything. There’d been nothing like that. There’d been nothing. Maybe it was the kids. He was blaming the kids. He wasn’t. Just, maybe that was part of what had happened. They’d never had time; they’d been too busy. Always ferrying them around, football and dancing and Scouts and discos. Then ferrying her ma as well. And her sister, and his ma. And her friend. The one he’d driven away from her husband. He’d had a thing about her. He’d have admitted that. It had never come to anything. But he’d felt it. A woman who’d had sex with someone she wasn’t married to. He’d been excited. That was true. At the time. Even with her kids in the back of the car. Adultery. Another word that did nothing for him. The kids but. There was nothing in that theory. They’d been busy, run off their feet—mad stuff. But they’d had the kids in common. Even when they were upstairs, in the bed. Is that one of them waking? Don’t stop, don’t stop. Where’s his inhaler? Don’t stop! They’d liked it. They’d loved it. At the time. And it had been a long time. Twenty-six years. What had happened? He didn’t fuckin’ know. Did she? He didn’t know. Probably. He didn’t know. He didn’t know anything. The telly hadn’t worked. Not really. Stupid, again. The idea that a television could bring them together. Even a good one. They didn’t even watch telly much. They never had. He liked the football, now and again; he wasn’t that fussed. She liked the politics. “Questions and Answers.” “Prime Time.” There was another telly, upstairs in the bedroom. You didn’t need a big screen to watch politicians. The whole idea had been stupid. The football was better on the big screen but. He felt himself smiling. Like a fight against his face. He let it through. He smiled. She was still on the phone. She laughed. Like the old times. He’d smiled; she’d laughed. The way they used to know each other. Stupid. He was being stupid. It wasn’t like the old times, nothing like the old times—whatever they were. He was by himself. She was somewhere else. There was no togetherness in it. None. It was nice but. Her laugh. He’d always liked it. He used to make her laugh. God. Could he still? Make her laugh? He doubted it. Would she want him to? He didn’t know. But he’d done it before. He’d tickled her, now and again. He couldn’t do that now. Creep up behind her in the bathroom. They were never in the bathroom together. He smiled again. The thought. Creeping up behind her. She’d have fuckin’ freaked. And it wasn’t the only way he’d made her laugh. Words used to do it. Jokes. Playacting, acting the eejit. She’d liked it. She’d loved it. She’d moved closer to him when she was laughing. He could give it a try. Now. A joke. Paddy the Englishman and Paddy the Irishman were— No; it was stupid. There was the one about the guy with no back passage. No. The one about the Irishman at the Tina Turner concert. He smiled. Too long, and she hadn’t liked it the first time. He remembered. What was he doing? He wasn’t sure. What’s the difference between a good ride and a good shite? That was a good one. Short and good. But it was so long since he’d told her a joke. He was just being thick. They hadn’t spoken since this morning. There’s the rain now. Yeah. There’s the rain now—him. Yeah—her. And that was nearly—he looked at his watch—eight hours ago. And now he wanted to tell her a joke. It was mad. What’s the difference between a good ride and a good shite? Mad. Thick. Stupid. He wasn’t angry now but. He wasn’t sure why he’d been angry. That wasn’t true. He knew. But he wasn’t angry now. He’d tell her the joke. He was nervous now. It was a good one to tell but. It was short, no story to it. He’d see if it worked as he told it. What would he see? He didn’t know. It was what he wanted to see; that was the thing. Her face. He wanted to see her listening—that was all. See her face, see her listening. Knowing what he was up to. That would do. He listened. She was out there, in the kitchen. He could hear her shoes. He knew, somehow—he didn’t know how: she was finishing up. The way she was moving, like she was leaving. She was going to hang up. What’s the difference between a good ride and a good shite? He couldn’t do it. It was too mad, too desperate. She’d recognize it for what it was: begging. A cry for fuckin’ help. That was stupid, too, but. It wasn’t a cry for anything. And it wasn’t fuckin’ begging. It was only a joke. There it was now; she’d put the phone down. She was still in the kitchen. It was more than a joke. He knew that. Would she know? He could hear her now. She came to the door. She stopped. He looked at her. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
My Heart Is a Snake Farm	I had a snake farm in Florida. Well, Buck really owned it, but I believe I’m still Board Chairlady. Almost overnight, he hand-sculpted a one-stop two-hundred-reptile exhibit right across the road from me here. At first it was very clean. It drew lively crowds from the day it opened: December 24, 1959. Then President Kennedy went and excited our nation about putting a man on the moon. That sicced the Future on any act just roadside and zoological. Tourists soon shot through our state, bound only for Cape Canaveral. Our Seminoles? Our bathing beauties? Passé at eighty m.p.h. Buck’s proved the last stand of pure unregulated carny spirit: back in ’59, anybody with a placard, some Tarzan gimmick, and a big mouth could charge admission. And you’d pay. And later, even if feeling somewhat stretched and peppery, you’d still be glad you paid. I myself had just retired from life as a grammar-school librarian. I was an unmarried woman of a certain age, imaginative as one could be on a fixed income. I’d felt a growing hatred of Ohio’s ice, of shovelling the brick walk I knew would break my hip if I stayed another year. I was and am a virgin, my never-braced teeth too healthy. Toledo’s secret nickname for me even as a girl: Little Threshing Machine. My worst vice? Letting others see me gauge their foolishness. So claimed my lifelong housemate, Mother. Even so, fellow-librarians did make me a national officer, thanks to my way with a joke, my memory for names, my basic good sense. And because, at our dressy conventions, everyone looked better than I and they all knew I knew. An old college friend urged Florida on me. “But, Esther? Be careful where you first settle. Danger is, once you’re sprung from these fierce Toledo winters, the first place you find in the Sunshine State you will—like some windblown seed—take fast tropic-type root.” She was a prophet. I drove past Tallahassee and, eager to make good time, got only as far as a crumbling pink U.S. 301 motel called Los Parnassus Palms. “Somebody’s thinking,” I said, hitting the brakes of my blue Dodge. Been here ever since. Rented a room by the night, week, then year, and wound up buying the whole place for less than my Toledo town house cost. I still keep the towels fresh in all twelve suites. A previous owner had named (then plaqued) each luxury efficiency: “The Monterey,” “The Bellagio,” etc. True, I never knew what such titles meant. But I accepted them as part of History’s welcome by-product, Romance. Some suites I lined with library shelves, others served recreation needs. E.g., 206-B, “The Segovia”: Periodicals, Ping-Pong, Reference. I didn’t care to chat up strangers nor wash the sheets of hairy men. So I switched off my place’s wraparound neon. But a motel cliff-hangs its highway the way waterfront property has lake. Salesmen kept honking, believing that dead signage (plus one cute wink) might mean a discount. Now, to me, Virginity and Refrigeration have both always seemed blue. Ditto one small steady “no” burning before a too pink and ever-blinking “vacancy.” So, ten days into ownership, royally sick of explaining myself, I flipped on that blue “no” full time. Redundant, you say? With me age sixty-seven or eight? Well, let’s get this part over: As to sex, I had one chance once with a beautiful boy but I chose not to. Actually, it was the father of a friend but it seemed wrong in their sedan in the countryside, and I thought there would be other takers. There were not. You can wind up with nothing; but, if you claim that and don’t apologize and forever tell it straight, it can become, in time, something. It’s not for everybody to marry and have kids, or even to be homosexual. Or even to be sexual. But you can still retire and move to the semitropics and wind up on the board of a Serpentarium. You never know—that’s the thing. And I say, thank God. Except for two middling hurricanes, my first year in Florida proved ever quieter. I’d always said I liked my own company; well, now I had twelve cubic suites’ worth. In identical bathroom mirrors, I found one tusky similarity saying, “Esther, you again?” True, the most intellectual Baptist ladies hereabouts invited me to join a Serious Issues book club; yes, I re-linoleumed my whole second story; by then it was almost 1960. The previous October, Mother’d finally ceased ringing her favorite little bedside bell. I had put it there for emergencies, but soon a moth in the room, any passing car, warranted much brass. By the end, I asked the morticians if they would please place Mother’s service bell right in the coffin with her. These large, kind men remembered me lording it benign over their grammar-school library. They now said, “How sentimental. So your mama, in case she wants something, can ring for someone else in the next world?” I lowered my eyes. “Exactly,” I said, but thought, And ring, and ring. I let gents believe whatever version of me they found easiest to take. Now I’d retired to wearing flats, finally becoming my own silent hobby, imagine my alarm when the two acres right across my highway here blossomed into Carnival overnight. Someone had leased that swampy inlet and its entire adjoining beachfront. He’d claimed my sole view of the ocean. One morning, two black Cadillacs, sharky with finnage, rolled up, pulling silver-bullet Airstream trailers. A pile driver soon pounded what looked like sawed-off telephone poles right into pallid sand dunes. The man in charge, I saw from my perch, was a big tanned white-haired fellow, all shoulders and department-store safari gear. He supervised via barks and backslaps, using his beer bottle as a pointer. I always resist such showoff males. (They never notice.) I served under three similar swaggering principals, mere boys. Any Ohio man willing to be called “third-grade teacher” for a few years got promoted above capable senior women. Now I watched this particular bull, six-two, fifty-eight if a day. Dentures probably. Across the poles, he hand-stretched huge canvas placards pulled tight as fitted sheets. Each showed a different Wild Animal of the creeping, crawling, biting variety. The ocean? Already upstaged. (First a showman hides something, then he describes it so you’ll shell out the admission.) Braggart images looked wet with all the drippage colors of tattoos. Crocodiles were shown big as green Chevies. Black snakes glistened in figure-eight oil spills that then lashed up the legs of screaming white girls scarcely dressed. The more pictures this hatchet-faced lion tamer rigged aloft, the slower flowed traffic on old U.S. 301. Beasts scaly, beasts spiny, swarthy, twisted, fanged. “Come one, come all.” Not wholly uninteresting. Meantime, I dragged a cushioned bamboo lounger out of “The Santa Anna.” Arms crossed, jaw set, I settled in, daring him to get one centimetre tackier. The salt-white dunes soon swarmed with antlike workers. Into sand, using driftwood, the head honcho drew a large scallop shell, outhouse-size. He pointed where he wanted it built. Bricklayers scratched their heads then shrugged but, laughing, nodded. Many cinder blocks got unloaded. Within hours, the men had formed three steps, each mitred round as a fish gill in “Fantasia.” Atop these stairs arose one little Aztec ruin dropped beside the sea—a ticket booth, glass-fronted, scallop-crowned. As masons mosaicked, Jungle Jim praised his artistes, fed them grilled sandwiches, tried their trowels while squinting past his cigarette. His big piñata head moved side to side, judging, as he framed all this beauty between his thumbs. He once backed too near traffic. Three attractive young women, using hand fans, kept their folding chairs aimed wherever he largely stood. By six o’clock, his cinder-block fortress, shaped like some goldfish bowl’s hollow castle, had been painted an odd pistachio-meets-swimming-pool green. All day, hands on hips, making a jolly silhouette, the man laughed and threw his head back sort of thing. He seemed as entertained as I by how his fantasy could rise in hours from sketch to housing. Come ruddy sunset, these circus folk threw tapering shadows that spanned traffic, just hooking their heads and shoulders into my parking lot. The showman (roughly my age, I now decided, though some men carry it better) mixed two clear pitchers of Martinis. He and his workers toasted their structure and everyone watched the sun sink pinky-gold behind it. Then the boss—with a bullfighter’s slash—tossed his whole Martini up the stairs, cocktail glass shattering into sand. His women, stirred, saluted him by knocking back their drinks in single gulps. Thus ended their first day here. If such a white-trash eyesore had sprung up across the street from my Toledo mews town house, I would’ve swarmed City Hall with two hundred other irate owner/career girls. But here, even seeing my oceanfront eclipsing fast, I squinted from my greenhouse (formerly 202-A) while pretending to read Fiction (206-C), doubting that things could grow more Gypsy-ish. The level of construction across four lanes of traffic soon became almost too complex for even me to track. Then two huge snakes arrived U.P.S. How could I know the bundle contents from this distance without using Mother’s surprisingly helpful mother-of-pearl opera glasses? Hints: serpent-package length, two added suitcase handles, triangular orange Caution stickers, airholes thickly screened, and how the delivery boy, wearing shorts, held these out like barbells, far, far from his plump legs. The carnival’s first six days here, I played hard to get. I deprived management of my company. I did not even wave. They seemed to be coping all too well. Nothing like this had ever so directly threatened my privacy tropique, my sense of self. Of course, the previous year, our retired librarians’ newsletter, Ex Libris, had announced, “Guess which colorful national officer just retired to and purchased her own ‘compleat’ Florida motel? (As yet unlisted, she is 823-887-9275.) Yes, our darn Esther!” Librarians fetched up here so thick I thought of it as filing. I stuck the Altoona crowd in 104-A, “La Sangria.” The louder Texans I sent on purpose to the leaking 307-B, “The Santa Anna,” as an Alamo pun that only I got. Eventually, I hung sheets over my office door and windows. And, slowly, even those big-time lending librarians greediest to borrow a free sunny room got the hint. Circulation dwindled. Alone I was again. Mother’s bell had been muted by six feet of Ohio loam long since frozen solid. My studying the ocean? Worth maybe three full minutes daily. Now what? The ringmaster across my highway finished digging a whole lake using his yellow rental bulldozer. From floor two and then from my flat roof, I caught chance peeks at his radical new land use behind the screening placards. Finally, one afternoon as I sat reading, all at once, in the bull’s-eye center of the lake he’d scooped, up spouted a wild central jet. It went off like Moby-Dick sighing straight aloft. This secret fountain caught me utterly off guard. I felt surprised, then half scared by such a tacky surge, felt something possibly akin to sheer dumb joy. A column of white foam shot forty feet, then fell heavily aside to make a plash, half violent, half joke. My every suite felt cooled some eight to ten degrees. I rose. I saw that I had been a snob. These dark, pretty circus folk were new here and living so en masse—and God knows I was none of the above. At last I understood it’d been Mother, that old eighty-five-pound Denver boot, still holding me back—her scoldings about manners and the standards required of a family fine as ours. She’d never let me play with my favorites, twins, “coarse, grocer’s daughters.” Having risen, I now slammed shut my third time through Pearl S. Buck’s “Good Earth.” Why be trapped in the past as some Chinese peasant girl when I had Maturity’s sloppy, festive here-and-now? Darting downstairs to my office-kitchen, I pulled forth a fresh-baked piping coffee cake, carried it bold across the highway (as soon as the steady stream of Key-bound tourists allowed a gap for a running gal my age). That’s how I first met Buck and his wives. “Well, aren’t you the perfect welcome wagon,” he himself spoke, deep. “We noticed you seemed to be in every window. Sure you ain’t triplets? Does your coming over mean you forgive a guy’s menagerie for complicating your property value? But aren’t you scared my prize Burmese python will wind up in your”—he squinted at the unlit neon—“Parnassus Palms dresser drawers?” “That a threat or a promise, sir?” Well, this cracked him up. “You’re a right good sport.” “Looking like this, do I have a choice?” The ladies laughed, he didn’t. I am such a patented virgin I can say things only some ancient cross-eyed nun might risk. “Everybody has a choice.” Buck met me head on. “That’s what we mean by ‘sport.’ ” Soon, over a berry-pink Daiquiri in a teak-lined trailer, I asked Mr. Buck how many snakes he owned—did he hire them from some animal-theatre agent or catch his by hand? The man’s voice had gathered accents from pretty much everywhere. These were basted in a unifying baritone the hue of Myers’s dark rum. “Some, lady, I did personally snag in Brazil. The gators seem to find me. Mowgli, she swam up a service-station drainage ditch in Kissimmee. I rescued Stumpy after he fell in some bad motel’s pool, no offense. My gators start, like seeds, small, but you feed them into becoming attractions. Funny, but they’re loyal in their way. The fancier snakes I have been known to order by phone but will probably say I caught bare-handed. I did, by dialling Princeton, New Jersey, same outfit that pervides mice to your finer cancer labs. Yep, always have been fascinated by the cold-blooded. As a kid, I tanned muskrat and otter pelts, kept corn snakes as pets, pretty, nonpoisonous. Been on my own since I was nine. Lost Mom to diphtheria, Dad to a travelling lady preacher. So be it. A longish adventure.—But enough ’bout me. What’s your setup, Esther? You didn’t start in Florida. Naw, you’re like me. On the lam from another buncha lives squandered elsewheres, eh?” I lowered my eyes, unwilling to seem simple as the word “unopened.” But then Buck did something unheard of. Awaiting response, he looked right at me. I peeked back up. I stood here and he stood there, with his ladies slouched on all sides, and he did not avert his eyes or flinch, not even men’s usual once. “Ouch at first sight,” I call it. My teeth are independent; each has its own unique sense of direction. And my hair, despite backcombing, has grown somewhat thin on top. All my life, even when I was six, males have treated me like The Maiden Aunt. A self-fulfilling trend. But this Buck, he stared straight at (not through) me. Seemed only he was strong enough to take it. Buck soon bounded clear across north- and southbound lanes, inviting me to his show, for free. He’d asked everybody door-to-door for miles, be they massage parlors or churches. His toylike bulldozer had by now piled real hills around Buck’s spitting lake. He’d imported full-grown royal palms. He made the white gravel paths look almost natural, going nowhere, if fast and in four-leaf clovers. Pastors, bleach-blond masseuses, two education-minded Negro couples, and a bunch of mean little boys gathered, plus me. “Everybody ’bout ready? Come one, come all, then. Price is right, if today only.” Then he performed his entire test spiel. Buck’s first jokes did seem stale, even for 1959 (“Welcome to Florida, Land of Palms . . . all open!”). But it was like a starter try for us all. If he tended to ramble, en route Buck charmed, too. He mapped out Amazon rainy seasons, warned of visa requirements, described his sleeping-sickness onsets. He showed early claw damage to one forearm. Facing certain snakes, he recounted their especially nasty captures. As he grew loud, his creatures got stiller and even beadier-eyed, as if out of guilt. He draped any creature not gator-weighty around his neck. Like leis that flexed, they seemed to like it. When Buck laughed, he gave off a smell like flint, ham, and 3-In-1 motor oil. Active as he was, one of his fingernails was always black-blue, coming and going. He lived in his great-white-hunter gear, jagged khaki collar, epaulets. Pall Malls got buttoned into a customized slot, the Zippo slid snug into its own next door. This man had a brown face like a very good Italian valise left out in a forest during World War Two and just refound. Weathered, but you could still see how fine its starter materials had been. Oh, he had some pips in there. Alligators, about forty, and three were the stars—huge, I mean as big as ever I saw in Mother’s precious back numbers of the Geographic. As with cows, they had whole sides to them. They loved their new lake; they showered in its hourly fountain. Huge amounts of lettuce were eaten. (Buck had already payolaed the produce clerks from Piggly Wiggly and Winn-Dixie to bring their castoffs here instead of leaving them lonely in trash vats back of stores. He also fed his reptiles frozen chickens—claimed the birds’ iciness made a crunch the beasts considered their own achievement.) I soon noticed grocery trucks over there at all hours, as much for curiosity as delivery. TV stations covered his Grand Opening. By now, the show was charging full admission and Buck let each visiting child feed one gator apiece. The kid would inch out on a diving board wearing rubber gloves to keep from getting lettuce drool on his little paws. Parents took snapshots. I feared a lethal topple. I briefly wondered about the Reptile Farm’s insurance picture; then, suspecting no coverage whatever, thought of something else. Smelling chow, gators hissed like gas leaks. Large white mouths opened, a fleet of Studebaker hoods. Seemed it was always time to feed the gators. Loose luncheon meats, crates of limes, you name it—they ate everything. Before Buck and his wives appeared, my afternoons had been somewhat less eventful: the local library (open 3-5 Tuesday afternoons) featured only past-due best-sellers stinking of Coppertone. Come 1 p.m., I had been mostly monogamous with my favorite soap, “The Secret Storm.” Sure, Fridays I might go wild, pop popcorn. But, finally, in the Parnassus Convent vs. Reptile Coliseum battle? No contest. By then Buck had made me a charter member of the Snake Farm Family Board, meaning I got in free. His one request: “How’s about you arrive five minutes prior to showtime wearing a flowered hat and carrying a purse, Esther? Just to keep up our sense of how my place is classy, scientific, er, whatever. Pretending to listen like you do gives my talks real tone, your being the retired educator. Eyeglasses would be good, even your reading specs. Hell, hon, with intellect and class like yours on view, I can charge a dollar more per customer.” Oh, he was sly, that Buck. He wore a cap pistol rammed into his holster, had on thigh-high treated boots, double-thick to keep the rattlers from snagging clear through. He would be wading into their humid glass booth, where thirty rattlesnakes curled clicking like seedpods on a binge. Nobody hates snakes more than snakes do. That’s part of why we fear them. We recognize our own self-loathing, but slung even lower, so it’s armless-legless with self-pity. And yet, even during a heat wave, snakes piled one atop the other like trying to form some sloppy basket. I did not get why. Myself being a single person, myself with typing margins set Maximum Wide, with me needing 13,500 sq. ft. just to feel sufficiently dressed, simply watching such constant summer skin contact made me feel half ill. Sometimes if I saw a crowd of cars I might wander over. First I limited myself to Mondays and Wednesdays—plus, of course, weekends. (Mother had always rationed my attending other children’s birthday parties: “You come home a sticky blue from their cheap store-bought sheet cakes. You forgive their whispering jokes about your . . . features. Listen to you, still wheezing from having run around screaming till you sound asthmatic, Esther. —No, we’re alike. Too sensitive for groups. You are one overstimulated young lady. So let’s just sit here a few hours and collect ourselves, shall we, Little Miss?”) Buck’s wives swore that if I stayed away too long certain snakes sulked. How could the ladies tell? You mostly recognized different reptiles by their size and how much of that the others had chewed off. I got to know on sight Buck’s largest rattlers: Mingo, Kong, and Lothar. Stumpy was the hungriest gator and often got in the way of others’ frozen chickens. Stumps never learned. And he paid dearly with his limbs, his tail mass, and, finally, his life. God bless his stubborn appetite. After hours, hanging out with wives in the Reptile Postcard Shop & Snack Canteen, Buck claimed he had once bought Hemingway a rum drink in Key West and got invited home to “Papa’s” hacienda for an all-night poker game. I usually asked him what Hemingway was really like. Buck would shake his head sideways: “Good talker. Sore loser.” During tours, I don’t think Buck’s grasp of Latin was all it might have been. More than once I heard some pushy customer loiter before a ragged cage, jab his camera toward Exhibit A, and demand, “Hey, what kind of snake is this ’un here?” “That one? That’s a big mean red one is what that is. Sooner bite you than look at you. Now, ahead on our left . . .” People would laugh, not knowing if he was joking or mule-headed. But, with this level of poison around, considering his German Luger and hooked stick, no one ever did ask Buck for refunds, repetitions, or corrections. After one show, I quizzed him: “I guess it’s that people love to be scared?” “No, dear Esther. It’s: people love to be scared by something new.” I looked at him, I sipped straight bourbon. Buck had been married four times, and three-quarters of his troubles were still with him. “Buck’s harem,” locals soon called it. Each gal kept her sleek identical trailer parked behind the backmost palms. I heard tell Buck visited a different lady every night. I’d never stayed up late enough to see. Some part of me did wish he would come nap anytime in any of Parnassus’s comfy settings. I kept the central fans of all twelve suites going, just in case. He plainly had no sleeping place not already warmed by a previous nesting wife. “Feeding them’s cheaper ’n alimony,” one local boy claimed Buck said. But that sounds like any of the hundred rumors that made his stint here on our highway so lively during those glory years of latest Ike-Mamie, earliest Jack-Jackie. Buck’s wives seemed another sort of specimen collection. They wore stage makeup, as if competing with each other during those long hot afternoons spent waiting for Buck’s last show to end. Of all ages, his gals were either very young now or had been even better-looking pretty recently. Each still appeared sunbaked with strong ceramic traces of her starter glamour. Working the concession trailer, they were supposed to sell the tourists food and souvenirs; they mostly drank small Cokes and ate the merchandise. They said funny if cutting things about the paying customers. “With those ears, we should stick ole Clem there out in the monkey cage,” or “Some of our exhibits eat their young, ma’am, and if you can’t quiet those bawling twins of yours we have the livestock that will.” “Now, ladies,” Buck came in laughing. “Ladies, m’ ladies,” shaking his head. He liked them spirited. Of my outfits, he preferred me in the lilac-covered hat and the white patent-leather shoes with matching bag. He wanted his wives to lounge out front in halters, waving at the cars, bringing in considerable business. (Me, I’d drag a kitchen chair into shade off to one side.) Truth is, the girls looked a little better from sixty-five m.p.h. But don’t we all? Come drink time, the former wives changed into beautifully ironed off-the-shoulder Gypsy blouses. They sported pounds of Navajo silver and turquoise squash-blossom necklaces that would bring a fortune today. They were always painting their fingernails and toenails or working on each other’s. You felt their tensions crest only at the sound of the final blanks Buck fired to end his show. When at last he stalked in, there’d be this pinball ricochet of love-starved looking: him gaping at the nut-brown breasts of one while another studied Buck’s flat backside, as those other two gals kept glowering at each other’s fronts. Nervous, I once blurted, “Cold Coke, anybody?” and got one hot glare so unified. His exes were intelligent girls who had not enjoyed my educational advantages. They’d once felt too attractive ever to need those. Doing crosswords out loud between shows, they’d squeal at how I helped. “Flanders Field!” I found myself yelling as my mother told me not to at parties. “Cordell Hull!” The girls soon treated me like Einstein’s sister, and I admit I humored them; I let them. Christmas and Easter, I had the whole crew over to Los Parnassus Palms for my turkey, dressing, pies. The wives arrived in drop earrings, evening gowns. Slinky and powdered, they unfolded from matching Caddies. Buck would wear a crumpled tux that looked like Errol Flynn at the end. Beloved fellow snake farmers seemed most impressed by my owning countless solid-silver napkin rings from Mother. (Funds she might’ve spent on her only child’s teeth braces.) “Good weight,” Buck said, testing, as all his holiday ladies nodded, giving him hooded looks. His wives had each been in or near the Show Business. Buck’s first, Dixie, once worked as a juggler’s assistant in Reno; Peggy, numero dos, claimed to have been a buyer (estate jewelry) for Neiman Marcus; Tanya was runner-up to be a studio player at Metro pictures in the class that included Janet Leigh. Over wine, they revealed more of Hollywood’s sad secrets. Hearing the crazy vices of the stars, I cried, “No. Not him, too! What leading man’ll be left for Esther?” (Later, some local yahoo tried telling me Buck had never married those three girls, said that they were just part of his roadside attraction, that their separate trailers made nightly cash admissions possible. I don’t believe it for an instant and I think some people on this road have very dirty minds. They adored him. That was all.) Not long into Kennedy’s Administration, the wives sped off to Bradenton to buy new outfits. That’s where the carnies all retire, patronizing a glamour shop the girls’d heard about. I saw their Cadillac scratch off around three, and at four I notice Buck, waving a big white hanky to make cars stop, looking sick as he comes staggering across four lanes of traffic toward my Parnassus Palms. I can’t say I hadn’t pictured this house call before. But not in crisis, not owing to illness. When I opened my screen door, he frowned, head wedged against one shoulder, and his face was all but black. He handed me a razor blade. “Esther? Either Kong or Lothar snagged me a good one in the back. Here, cut an X. Then pour ammonia on it. Go in an inch at least. I can’t see to reach it and my focus. . . It’s already all over, focus sliding, Esther.” He whipped off his shirt. Face down, he fell across my rattan lounger. I now stood behind him. Two fang marks weren’t hard to find because of all the purple swelling. “O.K.,” I said. I dashed to get a towel and the ammonia. I splashed cold water in my face. Buck’s upper back was seizing something terrible. And yet its shape was very strong, copper-brown, tapered like a swimmer’s. I cut far deeper than I wanted, then blotted at least two pints into a large white beach towel. “Now,” Buck said, “I’m going to have to ask you, Esther. And for a friend like you I’d do it in a heartbeat. Feels I . . . feels I’m going into shock here. I’d never ask for any reason shy of Life and Death.—But, honey, would you suck it?” I might sound funny if I tell you my thin legs nearly buckled. I fought then not to faint. Blame my seeing his dark blood or my viewing his entire back. More than once I had pictured him across the road there being worked on by his full swarm of wives. I’d imagined how Buck might look shirtless, and he looked better, even with blood, which made this more a movie. With Buck in the lounger, I could not bend forward far enough to help. “Here.” I lifted him and led him to my davenport. He was only half conscious and the weight of him was wonderful and tested my full sudden Esther strength. I helped him stretch out there, face down. God, how he trusted me! I settled on the floor beside his ribs. Finally, breathing for two, I rose up on my knees. My teeth are bucked, as you’ll have noticed. My own low-cost form of fixing them has always been to make a joke before others get the chance. “Need a human bottle opener?” I once heard a handsome young man quip to pals (and me only seven, trailing embarrassed pretty girlfriends). But now, knowing I might finally be useful to someone, I managed to say nothing. No Esther jokes today, Esther! I tottered on my knees, then pulled the hair back off my forehead. My eyes wet, I drew closer to his snake holes. They were like twin tears in cloth. At last I pressed my lips down onto those warm slots black with blood, then, slow, I pulled the poison out of Buck. Into myself. You might think I’m exaggerating when I say that I could taste what was poison, what was blood. The poison was bitter with a foamy peroxide kick to it. But blood seemed only salty and, by contrast to the venom, almost sweet. “Spit it out, Esther, spit it on the towel. Get all that out of you. I cannot have you harmed, not for a sec. You’re so fine, dear. Bless your soul for this.” I did as he said. I spewed it out then, just as he told me. I was stooped here over him, him flexed out below me, star-shaped, Buck. I fought wanting to cry like some little girl would then. Crying not from horror, not even from gratitude, but more from simply knowing: This is my life that I am living. “Esther, please hit me with ammonia. Takes acid to counteract snake acid. There. Yeeks, burns so good. Now I’m going to need some shut-eye, pet. You sure did it, though. You got it all or most, and I can tell, dear. But let me sleep, oh, twenty minutes tops. Then I’ll be fine. No more than that or I’ll get dopey. I will need to do something when I come to. Need to have you walk me around. This has happened maybe ten other times, so I know. But when I do feel stronger and can roll over, I am going to thank you, Esther. Living across from us these couple years, you’ve made our being here just so much livelier. More civil. And now this. You be thinking if there is anything whatever I can do for you, girl.” Then, at once, he passed out or slept. I eased onto my “Alhambra” breezeway. Had myself a cigarette. I’d only ever smoked two before. But somebody had left half a pack in “Segovia” and I did enjoy that one slow Lucky, pulling smoke way in, letting it find its own eventual way out. Laissez-faire. Then I realized: here, the only time a man had ever told me in advance I could expect something memorable and I was making my big mouth smell like an ashtray. I had to laugh at myself as I dodged into “Bellagio,” 109-A, and swigged down half a bottle of Lavoris. By doing this, I saw I’d made most of a decision. I only waked him because I felt scared that being out too long might give Buck brain damage or such. I stooped beside my davenport again. “Time,” I said. Facing downward, he just yawned, then aimed his elbows out, as if nothing much had happened. So . . . male. My couch had a new hibiscus print on it, maroon. Whatever blood he shed, it would blend in. But I wished that some might stay there, permanent. So sure, he turned over with a sleepy grin and growled up, “Hiya, lifesaver.” First Buck kissed me full on the mouth then more in the mouth. It did not prove so repulsive as it always looked when you suspected two movie actors were sneaking doing it. Then he told me he’d forever been crazy about me after his fashion and right from the start. Said how his liking me so, it had nothing to do with my First Aid just now. Not simple tit for tat. “So to speak,” I said, with the valor of an ugly person trying to make light of everything so as to stay hid. He told me to go pull the blinds shut, and I did. He got himself to sitting, woozy still. Then he patted the cushion right beside him. I, dutiful, feeling frail as if I had been snakebitten, settled just where he showed me. “You won’t forever after blame me or be jealous of the others if we do this once, to celebrate my coming back to life with your great help, right?” I shook my head no. He said, “Nothing to panic anybody. No breakage, Esther. Just one thing I want to do. I am too weak for offering up everything right now. I would black out. But this I know I want.” And he slid down off the couch and, first, Buck warmed his right hand between my knees. I wore half-stockings and he soon rolled those down with all the care of the earth’s best young doctor. Next, he hooked his hands around my drawers’ elastic and pulled the pants out from under me, showing me how to lift up so he could do it easy. He knew I could not have borne to let him see me all undressed. It was just too late for that much. Too late to do everything. But as I kept my hand on his one shoulder not swollen, Buck’s white hair, bristly as a pony’s, disappeared under my housedress. There was no false start, none of the snaky seeking I had feared. His tongue was there all at once, its own bloodhound locator system, and it could have been a hundred and sixty degrees hot. I had no idea. It, his tongue, soon seemed to be a teacher of infinite patience, then like a sizzling skillet, a little pen flashlight, now featherweight, now flapjack, then just a single birthday candle that—in time, strengthened by doing lap after lap—becomes the forest fire. I had no notion I would ever respond like this, way below where Language ever even gets to start. In brief, certain sounds were made. Snake-farmish sounds, only it was me . . . I. The “I” that soon had her leg crooked around his shoulder, pushing him away, but he leaned into that so it felt like I was playing him in and out of me at exactly my own speed. He was regular as a clock and I was always knowing where he would have been as I allowed myself and just went off again and again and off again, my calves St. Vitus, my feet dancing spasms. The first time was sort of a sea green, the second time more a bronzy blue—there came a red moment but it ended all steamed in hard-baked stone-washed sunflower yellow. It ended only because I was too proud to let it go on as long as it wanted to. Which would’ve been as long as both my life and his. Finally, I said, “There, oh my . . .” and started to make one of my jokes, but my dignity stopped me. Funny, I didn’t feel ashamed. I felt dignified. I never understood that this was possible. Having another person here, it was less shaming. It was more a way of knowing we are all alike in this. It was beautiful. It was once but it was beautiful. “Bacon and scrambled eggs and coffee cake,” I chanted, gathering myself to stand. I knew I wouldn’t risk the ugly comedy of pulling up my stockings or regaining my step-ins. Instead I would eat a meal with a man who had just taken my knickers off and he would know that, while we ate. I’d placed new oilcloth on my little table here in the former Main Office of Los Parnassus and I felt glad the room looked nice. He stayed right on till seven-thirty-six. I asked if he wanted my help to get him back across the highway. “No,” he smiled. “Let me picture you right here as you are, girl. You’re a saint from Heaven and a wonderful, wonderful woman. You’re so strong. I love that in you, Esther.” “Well, thank you,” I said, not doing anything funny, not daring to ruin this. I helped refasten Buck into his blood-soaked safari top. We had eaten as he sat there in the half-light with the white hair tangled on his chest and the swelling already going down. He was that healthy, it was cause and effect, once I had hoovered most of the bad stuff out. Fact is, I could still taste him or the poison or probably the mix in my mouth. A blend: walnut, allspice, penny metal, black licorice, lamb medium-well. I watched him go. The traffic parted, like for Moses. “Come one, come all,” I whispered through my screen door. It was Buck’s fourth wife took him to the cleaner’s. She was not in residence. One July 4th, we heard she’d suddenly demanded half of everything and here he was already sharing with his first three. Her suit tipped him into bankruptcy. I hate that kind of selfishness in women. In anybody. He gave so much. Then she had to claim his car and wallet. The sheriff served a summons mid-show. Flashing lights, sirens, horrible for Buck. What else shut him down? Not the Health Department, though they could have. Grilled-cheese sandwiches were served to customers off a G.E. appliance meant for home use only and not too often cleaned. Buck’s vats, where the gators did their shows (if you could call them shows), those might’ve used a weekly hosing-down with ammonia, Clorox. I had not volunteered to rush over and help. But you try and Ajax around thirty moody rattlers. All I knew, just when our neighborhood’s social life had grown so routed through the Reptile Farm Canteen, just as I’d got, first, the taste of poison, then a taste of what other people’s physical-type lives must be like and, I guess, daily—here came the state to close him down. There was a huge new sign: “Snake-Gators-Etc. Going Out of Business. Everything Must Move.” Buck soon sold the rattlers to researchers who believed their venom might cure cancer. A nature park outside Orlando sent a huge yellow Allied Van Line for the gators. All thirty-nine (Stumps, deceased, excepted) left here with silver duct tape wrapped clear around their heads, stacked like wriggling cordwood in the back of that dark truck. Oh, it was a black day along this overly bright stretch of U.S. 301, I can tell you. I stood there in Florida’s latex glare as the van pulled off with every gator blinkered and discounted, lost to us forever. In honor of the reptiles’ exit, I had worn my lilac hat and all my white patent leather and every Bakelite bangle I could find. We held on to each other, Buck, Dixie, Peggy, and Tanya and me. Plus some young gents and the teen-aged boys the girls had flirted with, just to keep them buying Cokes. Buck didn’t shed a tear. He was the only one. “Well, I’ve gotten out of tight corners before, girls. But this is the End of the Age of the Snake Farm, probably. Hell, I’m a realist. All their rocket talk and Russian hatred has nixed many a laugh. Eisenhower and Mamie might’ve been customers here. But those European-type Kennedys? No roadside attractions for people that French-speaking, clean and stuck-up. Type that changes clothes three times a day without noticing. Thing is, it’s nothing personal, way I see it. The Future is here and it gets hosed off way too often. And don’t you gals suspect it’s all based on damned Bad Science? I think nobody gives good value now, much less a decent doggone show. And where the fuck is the energy and fun in any of it? Excuse me, ladies.” “No sweat,” I said. Next morning, hired guys rolled up all Buck’s signs. Those now proved no more substantial than window shades, and yet, for three good years, they’d got to feeling pretty monumental. During windstorms, their canvas snapped like the sails of the Mayflower. That sound and the surf’s slamming made this seem the New World after all. Suddenly, signs gone, the Atlantic’s raw horizon showed again. But now it looked like a paper-cut cliff, Niagara. Buck’s home-dug lake, gatorless, appeared about as exotic as some miniature-golf-course water trap. Gravel paths bound nowhere now circled back in case they missed it, circled back. After our group goodbye to the gators, my friends left overnight in the middle of the dark. I later saw that as a kindness, really. The very next noon, a Haitian crew—carrying radios blaring French tunes—showed up like the Keystone Kops. They dug up all Buck’s store-bought palm trees. Root balls were still wrapped in burlap from their last sale. Seeing those trees go off lonely and akimbo on one flatbed truck was like witnessing a slave auction of my friends. Unseen, I waved. From the second-story breezeway, I was physically sick. Well, guess who felt bleak to the point of suicide or moving back to Toledo mid-February? Weeks after, you would see a Piggly Wiggly truck pull up, not having heard or believed, and with enough slimy salad in back to feed all terrariums on earth. I never doubted Buck’s tale about beating Hemingway at poker and what a whiner Papa was over losing sixty bucks. I believed my friend about his being overnight with Ava Gardner. Buck would say no more than that, except, below his dancing eyes, he kissed all his right hand’s fingertips. He admitted just “Ava? Ava was a gentleman.” And since Buck had once told me I was also somewhat one, that helped. Buck had been exactly Ava’s type: the best gristle-sample of manhood ever to spring up on the wrong side of the snaky tracks. And a man still male enough at sixty-five or nine to keep three exes fighting for some stray lettuce head of his tossed attention. He never bragged, except maybe to tourists he’d never have to see again. You might think Buck had too little to boast of; but there was, in the high times at the Canteen, in our sole evening of sucking the poison out of one another, a kind of grandeur I can only hint at. After his wives, too loyal and numerous, having heard his pistol, powdered their noses and freshened their Liz-Cleopatra eyeliner, all of us knowing our last show was about to end, and after the day’s forlorn clump of exiting tourists spent a few last wadded dollars on postcards and plastic shark-tooth key chains, Buck would come chesting in, he would give us all a cobra smile with real white teeth and, including me, including me, say, “Qué pasa, girls?” He had it. That is all I can say. Buck definitely had it. Once the Farm closed, if you dared walk over there, considering the sad and sandy blankness and those holes where rental palms had stood, you realized most of the cages had been nothing more than double-thick chicken wire. Made you wonder why the snakes had stayed. Maybe for the reason his ex-wives (and I) did. Because this really had been a working farm. Because everybody did his chores, even the snakes who struck against glass, aiming for the sunburned leg of some passing fat tourist boy, just to make him scream and force his mother, once she found no fang marks, to laugh. “It didn’t mean it, Willie. That’s just nature being nature, is all. That’s what snake farms teach us, son.” Buck’s show evaporated overnight, and highway traffic sure moved faster all through here. Especially after a new Japanese-owned driving range removed the Farm’s every Day-Glo yellow-and-pink lead-up sign. These had once started promising him twenty miles due north, due south: you are not but sixteen miles from buck’s reptile farm: snakes and lizards seen by the crowd heads of europe! “edukational” for the kiddies, too. largest gators in captivity: moneyback guarantee or a closer look! That was my Buck all over. Even now, one snaggled fact still stands there. Greenish and flaking, it is chipped like a Greek temple salt-preserved in Sicily: yes, his ticket booth’s rounded cinder-block steps arranged in a shape as close to scallop shell as blocks that size could possibly become. And up on top there’s the little cement platform, five feet above the sand, where people stood to buy admission for their families. Two hurricanes chipped the booth away in two huge molar chunks. But those steps yet survive. I told myself not to expect to hear from any of the wives or him once they’d slid out of sight. That proved righter than I’d hoped. Still, wherever they washed up next, you wished them well. (After all, when these showfolk found me here, in ’59, my lady library officer’s drink of choice—learned at conventions—had been a sticky cherry cordial. And by the time my snake charmers left in the middle of the night in ’63, I’d worked my way straight up to straight Jack Daniel’s. Who says there is no human progress?) Those greened steps now stand framed against only browning palmetto scrub. But here’s the funny part. Funny in some small, sidelined way. On a cool afternoon, if you park down a ways then tiptoe back, if you take a peek at the little stage that platform makes beside its bog, you’ll often catch three to seven dozing there. Real snakes sound asleep, wild ones. They must love the heat a day of sun leaves banked in those old blocks. Maybe snakes enjoy being dry and up out of their usual mud. But, black snakes and cottonmouths, water moccasins and, once, a red-and-yellow coral snake some boy claimed he saw, they all seem to be waiting. Like auditioning, or hoping for a comeback. They seem to still want in, as paying customers, to see other like-minded creatures, but ones grown huge and therefore notable, forty times their weight. It’s as if local reptiles can yet remember Buck’s whole vivid show. It’s like they long, as I once did, to simply hear how he’d describe them! Soon as the government closed Buck down, things grew silent fast around Los Parnassus Palms. I could not have simply left here overnight when my friends drove off. I owned property. Besides, they never asked. Still, I knew that, if he ever thought of me, Buck would want his good-sport Esther to be getting on with this, her latest life among the others she’d spent elsewheres on the lam. My heart had lately grown so . . . unsystematic. When first I bought Parnassus, I’d turned off all its signage. Then bargain-hunting oversexed salesmen kept making me explain myself. Finally, years back, I lit just those two low-watt neon letters. My “no” warned cars away. Through monsoons and dry spells, one blue skull and crossbones—my spinster coat of arms—blazed day and night against stucco. Five months after the Reptile Canteen closed, I spent an evening fearing the latest hurricane with a name like one of Buck’s ex-wives’. As I lounged around the Main Office—alone, naturally—I noticed, there beside the table where we’d eaten our aftermath bacon and eggs and his favorite coffee cake, two light switches. Decades back, these’d been marked in some stranger’s tidy pencil script “n.” And, below that, “v.” I now reached over and, inhaling, with the flair of some magician’s assistant, flipped off the “n.” Then, taking in two lungfuls of sea air, instead I just hit “v.” For victory? Dream on. I let it burn there, out in plain and common view. I cannot say it didn’t partly shame me. Pink and raw and overly visible, so all by itself (in its upright fifth-grade cursive). I retreated to our crucial maroon davenport. I settled here, now facing our highway’s every southbound headlight. I crossed my arms and felt surprised to find myself this ready: I would wait again. For what? Something. Anything, though not quite anyone. Heck, I’d already had the best. I might need to make a few concessions next time; I knew that. Buck used to flatter me: “Cozy how my big Show attraction stands right up across the road from your nice Shelter attraction, Esther.” “That’s easy for you to say.” I rolled my eyes to make him laugh. He never failed, and in a baritone mahogany. Now, almost half a year after losing sight of him, I felt represented by that blinking sign out there. He had taught me it pays to advertise. Come one, come all. It’s a human right, to name at least what you’d like to offer. True, I might not be any motorist’s idea of a final destination; but maybe I could pass as just another attraction along a roadside littered with such. —Because, you know what? You never know. And that’s a great thing: how they keep us guessing. That comes in second, right after Hope. Stranger things have happened than life’s stopping twice at one convenient off-highway location. Plenty of free parking, God knows. And now, as each headlight played across the slackened front of this, of me—partly ruined yet still far from stupid—I felt I’d outgrown “no” at last. Once upon a time in America, a man from nowhere with nothing but shoulders and great teeth, a guy backboned with one idea while enjoying sufficient sharpie patter—he could put up steps to anything that he might make you see as Wonderful. And without bimonthly federal inspections, without any legal charter past a friend or two he called “our Board,” that man could shake you down for exactly the number of buckaroos you’d actually part with. And he would send you off glad, with more of your own personal story than you’d had before he took your cash. And all this without exceptional Latin. Now, through my office plate-glass, I could see the former site of his Attraction. It was lit up tonight, salt-white sand, edges of white breakers endlessly uncoiling. All viewed better thanks to the sudden commercial glare from here, me. Burning pink, held up against everything, that one word, a full proud three feet high. Too raw a term. Too rude a come-on for a woman alone of my age and homeliness. Wasn’t it too hardened an admission, even for Florida, right along U.S. 301, even at 2:18 a.m.? And yet, leaning back, breathing for one again, my arms folded over a slack chest, I liked going braless beneath a favorite housecoat worn with only “our” bloomers. I would be smoking now, if I smoked. —Who is this woman hidden back of her neon? Why, it’s Esther the Impenitent. Still on the lookout, feeling almost dignified: vacancy Now I knew what it meant. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Breakup Stories	Our friend Danni’s young husband had been intending, since before he was her husband, to talk about his feelings about having children, but because these feelings consisted mainly of reluctance and aversion, and because Danni, who was a few years older than he, was unmistakably determined to have a family, this conversation promised to be so unhappy that the young husband still hadn’t managed to begin it by the time Danni reached a career plateau and announced that she was ready. The young husband told her that he needed to go to Burlington, Vermont. He said he needed to replenish his store of antique lumber for his custom-renovation business. From Burlington he called Danni every few days, sounding worried about her emotional state, but it was not until Danni received a card from the postal service, confirming the young husband’s change of address, that she understood that he wasn’t coming back. She said on the telephone, “Did you leave me? Are we not together anymore?” For the young husband, unfortunately, answering these questions would have meant initiating precisely the conversation that he couldn’t bring himself to have. He replied that all of a sudden, in Vermont, nobody was naïve about lumber anymore. Every single person in the state seemed to know that antique thirty-foot oak beams now sold for three thousand dollars. Even very stupid and isolated rural people were aware of this. He said that, as information became cheaper, markets became more perfect and real bargains impossible to find. Probably online auction sites like eBay contributed to this trend, which was bad for entrepreneurs like himself but good for rural Vermonters, he had to admit. A few days later, while Danni was on a business trip, the young husband drove to New York in his pickup and fetched his personal things, including a sixty-pound chunk of maple burl, from their apartment on East Tenth Street. Even after Danni had met a twenty-seven-year-old psychotherapist and become pregnant with his child, the young husband remained unable to tell her that he didn’t want children and should never have married her. The divorce was done by mail. Danni’s old college friend Stephen, a jazz guitarist and a fixture in the downtown free-improv scene, had been living with a fabric designer named Jillian for seven years when he informed his friends that he was getting married. “Yeah, so, Jillian’s the love of my life at the moment,” he said, “and she really wants to make things official, so.” Jillian had lately grown impatient with Stephen’s poverty and his insistence on staying out until three every night and the favors he was always doing for nuns, such as giving nuns rides to family funerals in distant states or hauling around crappy nun furniture in a truck provided by his parish priest (Stephen had been schooled and intermittently raised by nuns), and it was Jillian’s notion that marriage would settle Stephen down, make him less susceptible to the wishes of nuns and more susceptible to her own wishes, and he would start cleaning his fingernails better and getting home before midnight and so on. These expectations of Jillian’s came as a surprise to Stephen once they were married. On the weekend after their little wedding, which was held on the lawn of an upstate friend in bright October sunshine, Stephen retiled the bathroom of a nun named Sister Doina and returned from a late-night gig near dawn. Jillian moved out three weeks later. When the time came for the newlyweds to use their plane tickets to Pittsburgh for Christmas, Jillian jostled her way through the US Airways concourse at LaGuardia, looking for the one seat that was maximally distant from each of the many barking airport TV screens. She knew she had finally located this seat when she found Stephen sitting in it, his fingers pressing on his special miniature deep-insertion stereo earphones, which doubled as noise-reducing earplugs. In Pittsburgh, he and Jillian received felicitations from eighty-odd party guests of Jillian’s parents, who were well-to-do and had also bought the plane tickets, and for several nights the newlyweds had trembling, furtive kiddie sex in Jillian’s childhood bed, although she had already filed New York State paperwork for a legal separation and was constantly on the phone with her new, non-Catholic, nonmusical boyfriend in Manhattan, reassuring him, every day, that she was so, so over Stephen. A few months before Ron started introducing his friends to his new girlfriend, Lidia, his father died and left him enough money to buy the kind of West Village duplex that Ron had always wished he could afford. Ron taught philosophy at the New School. Over the years, he had confided to various friends that he feared his only purpose on the planet was to insert his penis in the vaginas of the greatest possible number of women; the roster of insertees included both former students and students actively enrolled in one or more of his classes, various junior and senior New School faculty, fellow-guests at philosophy conferences in other cities, the grown daughters of his accountant and his wine dealer, the fabric designer Jillian, the girlfriend of a former next-door neighbor, and several female staff members at the local branch of the New York Sports Clubs. Ron’s academic specialty was moral philosophy. A big reason women fell for him so hard was that he was a person of great feeling and conscience. He listened to women with patience and active sympathy; he was like the tender, respectful brother or father they’d always imagined having. And even though these were the very qualities that led women to invest their trust in him and thus advance what he feared was his sole mission in life, he genuinely was a nice man; there genuinely were good reasons that he had so many loyal friends. Which was why, as the years went by, he chastised himself so bitterly for his inability to stay faithful to any girl for longer than about sixty days. Every once in a while, he confessed his sins to his friends, who were grieved to see him suffering and beating up on himself and who hastened to reassure him that he was not a sick monster. His bad behavior caused him so much pain that you wanted to comfort him, not condemn him (although it certainly helped, in this regard, that you never got to see whatever pain his behavior might have caused the girls who trusted him). Whenever a new girl entered his life, he disappeared with her behind closed bedroom doors, as if to avoid potentially compromising interactions with his friends (in whose minds, as the years went by, his many identically slender and dark-eyed young dates and short-term girlfriends all kind of blurred together) and to minimize the fuss of dumping the girl when the time for dumping came. Finally, though, with the death of his father, and with his acquisition of a duplex on Bank Street, and with the looming of his fortieth birthday, Ron decided to put childish things behind him. Within weeks of meeting Lidia—a young Ecuadoran beauty from Jackson Heights who prosecuted drug cases for the Manhattan district attorney—he made a point of introducing her to all his friends. Sitting beside Lidia in various restaurant booths, he averred to his friends that he had finally met his intellectual match. While Lidia was in the bathroom, he further disclosed that his relationship with her was “basically a done deal,” that there was “no backing out now,” that he and she were so definitely “on track to get married” that he was preparing to adopt her three-year-old daughter from her short-lived first marriage, and that, although it would obviously require titanic effort on his part, he was determined to stay faithful to Lidia for the rest of his life, because he was in awe of her intellect and she had such a great sense of humor. Ron delivered this huge news in a curiously abstract tone of voice, without meeting his friends’ eyes. When Lidia returned from the bathroom, having darkened her lipstick and mascara, Ron’s friends couldn’t help noticing that he sat facing away from her, leaving twelve or fifteen inches of space between them, and that she said “expresso” and “eck cetera” and “between you and I,” all of which famously grated on Ron’s ears. You almost got the sense that Ron wasn’t even listening to Lidia. While she spoke of their upcoming camping trip to British Columbia, glancing eagerly at Ron to reassure herself of his approval, he gazed off into the distance like a man trying to empty his mind while a phlebotomist took blood from his arm. Now and then he came back into focus, leaned over and put his arm around Lidia, and instructed her, for example, to tell his friends about the word she’d played in Scrabble the other night for eighty-seven points. Lidia lowered her eyes to her napkin. The word, she said, was “plenary”—not even that great a word. But Ron insisted that he had never seen this word before, that her vocabulary was much larger than his, and, absurdly, that he had never in his life scored eighty-seven points in one Scrabble play. “I’m happy,” he said simply, his body angled toward the restaurant’s front door. “I feel like I could be content to play Scrabble with Lidia for the rest of my life.” A few months later, during summer vacation, when some of his friends asked him how things were with Lidia, Ron sounded distracted and impatient, as if his feelings were well known by now and he found it weird even to be asked about them. He said that he and Lidia had recently passed their six-month mark and might as well be married—it was pretty much a done deal; he couldn’t back out now—and, yeah, O.K., sometimes it was hard to imagine having sex with the same one person for the rest of his life, but he was forty years old, and it was time to grow up, and he was committed to making this relationship work, and so, basically, yeah, things were really, really, really good between the two of them. A few weeks later, he dropped out of all voice, e-mail, and face-to-face contact. When he surfaced again, toward the end of August, it was to send his friends terse e-mails with a new postal address and phone number. Pressed for an explanation, Ron replied in an irritated tone that he’d rented a two-room box on East Twenty-eighth Street and was working on his Heidegger book. Lidia he preferred not to talk about at all, though he did refer to a summer-school student named Kristin several times, and under close questioning he admitted that taking moral responsibility for his many broken promises to Lidia had been costly to him financially. Lidia was devastated, he said, when his involvement with Kristin came to light—an involvement that he didn’t insult his friends’ intelligence by pretending was going to last past Labor Day—and, since there was no conceivable excuse for his misbehavior, he’d made amends as well as he could by providing a thirty-per-cent down payment on a comfortable West End Avenue apartment, a classic six suitable for a single professional woman and her three-and-a-half-year-old daughter, which had necessitated putting the Bank Street duplex on the market and pricing it to sell, which was why he was now living in an anonymous box in Murray Hill. Ron was probably the world’s leading authority on Heidegger’s moral philosophy; he was renowned for his extemporaneous and wittily annotated classroom translations of knotty Greek and German texts; and so his friends, even his very smart friends, were simply too intimidated intellectually to question his cash payment of several hundred thousand dollars for the sin of cheating on his girlfriend of six months. That his real-estate transactions must already have been in motion even as he was assuring his friends that he and Lidia were practically married—that the entire private drama of exposure and shame and penance couldn’t possibly have been jammed into the three and a half weeks that he’d dropped out of sight—became just another of the never-again-referred-to mysteries that were the price you paid for the pleasure of Ron’s company. Stephen’s cousin Peter, on the other hand, when he’d been having unprotected sex with his Pilates instructor, Rebecca, frequently enough (and then some) to make her pregnant, went straight to his wife, Deanna, with whom he already had two children, and said that although he was committed to their marriage he was also in love with Rebecca, and he wanted to be involved with raising their child, and perhaps everyone could just learn to get along? Peter’s plan was financially realistic—he was a radiation oncologist with a busy uptown practice—and he felt that if Deanna was realistic herself she could hardly say no. Peter was a nice, late-blooming Midwestern boy who had married his plain and rather clingy college girlfriend and let her go to work at a bank to support him in med school. He could see now that a successful Manhattan oncologist could do a lot better, spouse-wise, than a sour, fussy, pinch-faced mom with large thighs, and that to stay with her would be like continuing to pay eighties-level interest rates while the rest of the world refinanced its mortgages—there was no earthly reason for it, basically—but, at the same time, he recognized that he owed a lot to Deanna, and he loved his kids, and one of the many excellent things about Rebecca was how comfortable she was with the idea of French-style family arrangements. So it wasn’t like there were any jerks in the picture here. Everyone was doing his or her best to be nice and responsible while remaining, of course (as Peter stressed in his presentation to Deanna), realistic. It was only after Deanna had hired a capable lawyer and won full custody of the kids and a financially eviscerating divorce settlement that Peter realized how wrong he’d been, from the very beginning, about Deanna—she’d never really been nice at all! she was homely and mean!—and how lucky he was to have Rebecca, who was not just young and shapely but also (as witness her willingness to share Peter with Deanna) genuinely menschy, although, as he sometimes admitted to himself in the shower, or in bed at three in the morning, when his second Martini was wearing off, or when he happened to think of Deanna in her bloated new house up in Harrison, with her atrocious S.U.V., and caught himself mentally addressing her in terms like “Old Pig Eyes,” niceness was a relative term and Deanna probably viewed the matter somewhat differently. Or, as Peter’s friend Antonia liked to tell visitors to the high-floor parkside unit on Central Park West that she’d bought with the proceeds of her own divorce settlement, there came a point in every failing marriage when you found yourself in a room with a waxwork hologram of yourself: when you saw, through your spouse’s demented eyes, the monster he projected in your place, a monster who resembled you superficially (though it was probably somewhat fatter and more wrinkly than you really were, just as his youthful idealization of you had probably been firmer and sexier than you’d really been back then) but was in every other respect a fantastic and wholly unfamiliar creature. Antonia made all her visitors remove their shoes at the door to her place on the Park and never let more than one friend at a time come to see her; even her daughters had to visit one at a time, without bringing overnight guests or wearing shoes inside. These were just some little house rules that Antonia allowed herself to enforce after twenty-plus years of motherhood and hellish corporate-wifedom in Palo Alto. The decisive moment in her own marriage had come in her Palo Alto kitchen, after she made an unloving remark to her husband. The remark was no different from a thousand other unloving remarks she’d made in the previous ten years; but this time the husband, who was a small and mild and nose-scrunchingly nervous man with a face familiar to viewers of “Wall $treet Week,” grabbed her by the throat with his right hand and pressed his thumb into her windpipe. With his left hand, he pinned her wrists against her chest. He brought his face very close to hers, which was rapidly turning purple, and pleaded with her: “Why are you doing this to me?” To which Antonia could only say, “Kegh. Ecck!” And so the husband screamed directly in her face, “Why are you doing this to me! Would you please stop doing this to me!” As Antonia later told her visiting, shoeless friends, one by one, this was the moment when, in spite of her growing fear, she had suddenly seen herself as her husband saw her: as a crushingly strong and evil person who had been causing him terrible harm for many years; as the monstrous figure who kept him from attaining every pleasure and every freedom he’d ever wished for, who annihilated his manhood with her cunning and her wit. Nevertheless, she tried to point out the patent absurdity of his plea. “Guaggh—kgheck,” she said. Some time later, when she regained consciousness, she found herself lying on her back on the kitchen floor. The husband was leaning against the utility island, eating a folded-over piece of sandwich-style rye bread. Antonia’s throat was raw and clogged, but she had more of a sense of humor than of self-protection. “I was trying to say,” she said, coughing as she laughed, “who’s strangling who?” The husband’s reply was matter-of-fact: “I wasn’t strangling you.” “Then why,” Antonia said, “is my windpipe practically broken and me lying on the floor?” The husband stated flatly, “I never touched you.” And the curious thing, Antonia told her friends, was that he believed what he was saying. And she saw what he meant, and she believed him, too; because how could he have touched her when she, the real she, wasn’t even in the same room (or, possibly, the same universe) that he was in? Nevertheless, she said, it worried her to see him behaving psychotically. “Honey?” she essayed tenderly, from the floor. At this, the husband reached out and seemed to strangle invisible Antonias in the air all around him, his eyes beseeching Heaven. “What will it take to get rid of you?” he cried. “What do I have to do to make you stop doing this to me?” Oh, the poor little man, Antonia thought; I’ve nearly killed him. “Just give me half the money,” she said, putting her hands on her throat. “Just—haugh, guagg, hack, kkgh! That’s all! Just aaaghkk the money, honey!” She laughed and coughed, and the husband ran from the room ashen-faced, as if he’d seen a fulminating witch, a dead woman speaking, some kind of horror-flick apparition. In later years Antonia never, in her stocking-footed friends’ hearing, spoke of him with anger, always only pity, because, she said, he knew himself so poorly. And her friends, listening to her tell these stories in a voice that grew more cartoonishly little-girlish with each year she spent on Central Park West, felt sorry for the husband, too. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Alpine Slide	The first summer I was old enough to work, Jacques Michaud opened the alpine slide. The slide was ten miles from the lake, in the mountains. Over the years, various businessmen had leased it for a summer or two and failed to make it a success. But Jacques Michaud was from Canada, and maybe he thought that made a difference. Or maybe he hadn’t heard or believed the stories of previous failures, or maybe he thought the economy had changed. At least that was what he said when he hired us, and the economists were saying it, too. Originally, the place had been a ski area. Thus the lodge: a low, flat, brown-shingled building, and the chairlift, a forty-year-old contraption with shiny red metal slats for seats. The lodge was in a grassy valley and the mountain was covered with pines. It was beautiful. But the peak wasn’t the highest in the state, and the slopes weren’t the steepest. Sometimes people came from Massachusetts to ski, but mostly they drove right past, headed farther north, to the White Mountains. After the ski area had gone bankrupt, someone saw the abandoned lodge and lift and decided to lay down the alpine slide, two parallel tracks, each a mile long, that began near the top of the chairlift and wound their way down the mountain through the trees, twisting and dipping over spills of glacial rock until they shot out into the flat fields of the valley. The sleds were plastic and had two steel runners on the bottom. When the brakes were all the way off they could go thirty miles an hour, slipping up the high sides on the curves and lifting slightly from the track on the dips. The ride was two minutes long, and you flew down the mountain as you flew in dreams, through seemingly solitary woods that leaned in of their own accord to block out the blue above. It was unforgettable, beyond your control, and you believed you were about to die. People always said the ride was wonderful, but they also forgot that it existed. In the late seventies, a businessman made the place into a theme park by adding a waterslide. He put a cafeteria in the lodge, a snack shop by the lift, and constructed a craft village—a row of six chalet-style huts where local artisans sold landscape paintings, goddesses carved from driftwood, and candles shaped like frogs. When that park failed, another businessman made a better park by adding the Cannonball, a man-size tunnel that you slid through until you were shot out into a pool. The fibreglass tube scratched your ass, and the water that sprinkled down from above made you feel as if you were drowning. The ride was seven seconds long, uncomfortable, and without danger or pleasure, but women’s bikini tops sometimes popped off when they hit the pool and, for a while, the Cannonball worked. Then the water park at Bear Beach opened its own Cannonball, and the slide shut down for good. We had looted it. By we I mean all the local teen-agers, though my own participation was minor and of a different nature, since I lived nearby and considered it mine. Behind my house, there was an old carriage road that went halfway over the mountain, and when I was twelve and thirteen I’d follow it to its dead-end, near the top of the lift, walk down the abandoned slide, and enter the lodge through a broken window. Inside, I took a good look at the cheap white dinnerware and ashtrays scattered around the nubbly blue carpet, tapped my fingers on the stacked-up plastic tables, and inhaled the stink of beer and mildew and the eggy scent of old sex. There were wooden slope signs—“Trigger,” “Splinter,” “Bonebreak,” and “Gunrock”—on the walls, and faded pink maps of the ski area, the mountains, the lake, and the state. But what I liked best was to lie back on the hot slide and stare at the sun. Older kids threw parties in the parking lot at night, made bonfires in the acres of dirt, and had sex in the empty manager’s office amid the mouse turds and dust, but they were never very subtle or quiet and soon after they got there the police would arrive and shoo them away. Jacques Michaud was only renting the park, but he used his own money to replace the broken windows and repair the lift. He tore up the old nubbly blue carpet and put down a new nubbly blue carpet and restocked the cafeteria with frozen burgers and hot dogs, cases of soda, and industrial sheets of Jell-O and chocolate cake. He whitewashed the bathrooms and shower huts and planted cheap, hardy, orange brushlike flowers all around the park. Then he polished his car, a black 1956 Jaguar Mark VII sedan, and made stops at businesses all around the area, chatting up owners and dropping off batches of shiny purple brochures. Toward the end of this he drove to the Exxon station where my father worked as a mechanic and asked him if he had any kids, preferably daughters, who could work at the slide. I was fifteen, and a daughter, and my world was circumscribed. I was expected to earn nothing less than A-minuses in school. I ate dinner with my family every night at six and was in bed by ten. I was not allowed to ride in cars with boys. My parents had other rules, all with the same purpose: I could not date, or be alone with a boy. I’d never been kissed. I longed to be kissed. I spent a lot of time at home, in my room. I was also shy, and when I spoke sarcasm came out of my mouth. But I could work. My father believed in work, and he was intrigued by Jacques, enough to go on at length about the park’s likely failure. Too far from the lake, the motels. No one wanted a dry slide in summer. “He says he’s Canadian,” my father said. “But he doesn’t have an accent. To me, that means he’s brilliant. He seems like a good guy. But I just don’t think there’s any way he’ll make money from the park.” I rode my bike to the interview. Jacques Michaud’s Jaguar was parked in the dirt lot outside the lodge. My father had said that it resembled a Rolls-Royce, but to me it looked like a hearse. On the slope beyond the lot, gold grasses waved and the metal towers of the lift glinted white. The wires holding the chairs shimmered like mirages in the heat. A hawk floated in the sky like an ash. The lodge was so dark that I couldn’t see. But I could smell a cigar. Someone—Jacques Michaud, I guessed—said something from the corner. His voice was low but casual, as if he were utterly relaxed. He was sitting at a lunch table. He got up and pulled out a cafeteria chair and told me to have a seat. Then he sat back down. He had a dinner plate in front of him, with the remains of a ham sandwich on it, which he was using as an ashtray. His skin was dark and his hair was white. Pure white. He wasn’t old—or he was, to me, but not enough to have white hair. He was forty, maybe fifty. It was hard to tell. His body was muscular—he was wearing shorts and a T-shirt, and his legs were brown, almost hairless, and thick. I was shocked that he wasn’t wearing a suit. I’d worn black polyester pants and a stiff white shirt, which was now wet from sweat, and I had had a lot of trouble pedalling my bike along the highway in my dress shoes. “Would you like a cigar?” he asked. He waved toward the kitchen. “I have more in back.” He took a puff, held it up and read the tiny silver letters on the dark-red band. He squinted. “They’re not illegal,” he said. “But they’re pretty good anyway.” I considered cigar smoking disgusting and lethal. But I was looking at him and considering having one when he said, “I was kidding.” I nodded stupidly. He glanced at his watch. He hadn’t seemed to look at me at all. “You’re too young,” he said. “But I’ll hire you.” “You haven’t even interviewed me,” I said. “Well,” he said. He put the cigar on the plate. “You seem like an honest person to me. You look honest. And I met your father. He’s a good man.” “He’s good at fixing cars,” I said. He leaned forward. “That’s important. It’s important to fix cars.” I wasn’t sure what to do with this. I felt as if he were saying something intimate. But he was talking about cars. My father was a shame between us, acknowledged and then forgotten. What I understood then was that the world was contriving in secret, with swiftness and accuracy, to keep Jacques Michaud from making the park a success. But, herculean, he was lifting it on his shoulders. I was invited to be with him while he lifted it. Perhaps I could help. I liked how he looked. His white hair curled over his broad forehead a bit, which made him seem oddly boyish. He had a wide, hawklike nose, a strong chin, and full pink lips. “Let’s say I interview you,” he said. “I’ve hired everyone I need. The law says you’re too young to work moving machinery. That means you can’t load sleds on the lift, top or bottom. So why should I hire you—what can you do?” My spine straightened. “Well,” I said. “I can stand at the bottom of the slide. I can also sit at the top of the slide and show people how to use their sleds. I know CPR. I could work at the waterslide.” I listed other things. He listened without expression. “I suppose I could work in the cafeteria,” I said. “Though I’d really rather work at the slide—” “Stop,” he said. “You’re hired.” “Thank you so much,” I said. He put his cigar on the plate and came around to my side of the table. I stood up. I assumed the interview was over. His hand came out and I stared at it. “Shake hands,” he said. I did. His hand was large and warm. “Now we’re partners,” he said. Then he gave me some forms to fill out and disappeared into the basement. I was about to leave when he appeared at the top of the basement stairs. “Hey, Bowman,” he said. “Do you know what I’m counting on to make the park a success?” I shook my head. “I’m counting on you,” he said. “You are excellent. I’ve hired an excellent staff. And you will be excellent, too. I can tell.” No one he’d hired was over twenty-three, and most were eighteen. The other employees were the most popular people in my school, but, because I was the youngest by far, they accepted me as a kind of younger retarded sister. We were bonded by the fact that we all loved Jacques. He was the kind of man who was willing to make a group of kids his friends. This didn’t mean that we weren’t aware of an aura of failure about him, that we didn’t sense that he was lonely and sad or feel glad that we weren’t him. But he had given us jobs. He paid us more than minimum wage. And he did not require us to wear uniforms. The boys wore dark swim trunks of their choosing, and the girls could wear whatever. Most wore bikinis. We were given fifteen-minute breaks every three hours, and during that time we were free to ride the waterslide to cool off. The lodge had a bar in the basement that had originally been for skiers, which Jacques didn’t open to the public. But sometimes at the end of the day, when the pink sun was lighting just the tips of the wheat around the parking lot and all the customers had left and we’d finished putting the sleds away and hosing down the platforms, he opened it for us. I went once. The carpet was the same nubbly blue as the cafeteria’s—only it hadn’t been replaced—and the room had a long black bar, a bunch of barstools, and some wooden tables and chairs. I sat at a table with some other workers and listened to what they said. I was perfectly happy. The bar smelled like incense, grease, and nutmeg. The sun was coming in through the basement window and illuminating the glasses on the tables and the grains in the wood. I could see Jacques at another table. Every few minutes he’d say something, and then he’d sit back and his hands would spread in the air. He was talking to Amy Goldman, who would be a senior in the fall but was already eighteen because a virus had kept her out of school for a year. He was teaching her how to bartend. “At your natural speed,” he said. “Don’t rush.” She said, “One, two, three, four.” “Good,” he said. “You’re a slow counter. That means you count to three and a half. Then stop.” She nodded. “That’s it,” he said. “You never need to measure. You just count.” He said something else that I couldn’t hear, and she laughed. Sometime later, I heard Jacques telling a story. I’d missed the first half. In the second half, a young airline pilot was excited about his new fiancée, who was riding in coach. Once the plane hit cruising altitude, he met up with her in the lavatory. Jacques paused. “And when the stewardess went into the cockpit to ask the pilots how they wanted their coffee,” he said, “the old guy was asleep by himself.” “No one was flying the plane?” Amy Goldman asked. Jacques smiled. “No one was flying the plane.” Then he shrugged. “Autopilot usually does fine. In those days, all the airlines had a pretty late retirement age, and the old guy fell asleep a lot.” “So what happened?” “They got fired,” he said. Someone asked him if he’d been the younger pilot. “No,” he said. He picked up his glass and drank. “The story just went around.” He went upstairs to use the bathroom then, and when he came back down he sat next to me. “Bowman,” he said. He asked me how I was, and how I liked working at the slide. I said that I was good, and that I liked my job. Then he put his hand on my shoulder and said that I’d better go home. When I got home, I was grounded. From now on, my parents said, I would come home right after work. There was no reason to stay. I told them I’d just wanted to talk. “Talk at work,” they said. “You can talk to those people all day.” So each night I pedalled home along the highway, swerving almost into the ditch every time a car came, and imagined that I was back in the lodge telling stories, even though in real life I almost never talked. I read books. My favorites were the ones in which young Victorian women were forced by adverse circumstance to have sex with swarthy highway robbers who were twice their age and had impeccable manners and great taste in jewels. On the front of these books, the women’s shining satin bodices were being ripped apart not by the big-muscled highway robbers themselves but through sheer spontaneous combustion, helped along by the women’s rapid breathing patterns. The books were all the same. Once the robber gets the woman alone in his ramshackle but comfortable hideaway, which includes a big satin-pillow-filled bed, he looks around, notes the absence of a second bed, and says that if he were a gentleman he would sleep on the floor. But he is not a gentleman. She tells him that he is disgusting, a villain, a scoundrel, that her father will discover the abduction and will certainly take revenge, likely with dogs. The robber finds this laughable. “It is not in my nature to force you, Carlotta,” he tells the woman once they are in the bed. “But I will have to kiss you, you know. . . . ” With one thick finger he compels her to look into his face. His black eyes are smoldering like burning bread. His lips are so rough that they are cracked into segments. “After all,” he says, “I went to such trouble to abduct you.” “No,” Carlotta whispers. “I loathe you . . . loathe you . . .” Two brief pages later, she’s pregnant and locked in a tower. I prayed that something similar would happen to me. Jacques lived in an empty room in the lodge’s basement, behind the manager’s office. It had one small window at ground level, which he sometimes threw a blanket over. On the floor was a clock radio, and a queen-size mattress. The only other furniture was a dresser full of T-shirts and shorts. On the dresser was a picture of a babe. An older babe, but a babe—a redhead with an angry look on her face. The woman was Jacques’s dead wife. Or that was what we’d heard. Her death had left Jacques alone in the world. He missed her every day. He’d travelled all around the globe. Now he thought he’d settle down. He’d picked New Hampshire because he’d heard it was beautiful. Second only to Canada. He’d seen the park, and it had seemed like a great opportunity. A beautiful niche in the mountains. Cheap rent. He contacted the owners, and had them lend him the keys. He’d carried a sled up the mountain, and ridden it down. He’d made up his mind right then. He didn’t see how such an incredible feeling couldn’t be a success. We were not excellent workers, mostly because we were stunned by the pleasure of one another’s company. Soon our legs became scraped from lifting sleds, and our arms grew sore and then muscular. Our skin turned gold. Our fifteen-minute breaks stretched to thirty. Instead of half price, our snacks were free, because the snack-stand crew, a lower echelon of workers who were trapped in grease and darkness, offered them to us that way. The waterslide had an office, a white cement room that looked out onto the pool through a window, and in it was a black vinyl chair that rolled on three silver wheels, the fourth having been lost, some water-stained pamphlets on how to perform CPR, and an enormous black stereo with two cassette decks that played a joyous cacophony of Megadeth and the Beastie Boys. This office became the site of passionate and private discussions, during which the participants leaned a chair against the door and propped a mat over the window. On the platform at the top of the lift, teen-agers stretched into strange nature-worshipping poses and smoked cigarettes. Their job was to tell customers to raise the safety bar, to help them off the chairs, and to hoist the sleds from the chair backs, but when no customers were visible they sat in a circle on the platform and told dirty jokes and played cards. The mountain crew was always thirsty and sending someone down the hill for drinks. The waterslide crew was thirsty and hungry, too. As the youngest, I was always chosen, no matter where I was stationed, to make the food run. Under the yellow awning of the snack stand, I’d order three large nachos with extra cheese, six raspberry slushies, three cheeseburgers, and five chili dogs. The server would pack everything into a shallow cardboard box, and I’d give him the soft, ripped bills I’d collected. He’d push them back. On my return along the sandy path to the slide, Jacques sometimes passed by, walking slowly, wearing shorts and an old polo shirt, tight under the arms. He’d look up and nod, appearing to see only me, not the box. I wondered how he could notice so little. I guessed he was preoccupied. He’d hoped we’d have six hundred people a day, and we hadn’t yet. He was always chatting up the customers and making lists of needed supplies, and every day at noon he drove to a different neighboring town to distribute brochures. He kept a few in the pockets of his shorts, and sometimes he’d absent-mindedly shove them farther in, because the tips stuck out. He’d had them printed himself, and on the front was a picture of Amy Goldman. I could understand why. She was the most glamorous, if not the most beautiful, girl in school. Within a week of the park’s opening, she was dating Dave Z., the assistant manager and second-oldest employee of the park. He was going back to college in the fall, and she had another year of high school, so by necessity it was a turbulent and passionate affair, one that touched us all. Dave Z. had blond hair and a deadly smile full of teeth. He never spoke to us except to tell us to do something, and then he called us kids. It seemed fitting and tragic that Amy Goldman should be his. She was a blond goddess—five feet eight with strong legs, a waist like a man’s neck, and breasts as big as they could possibly be without being too big. Her posture was as straight as if she were walking at sea. Her skin was bruised apricot, her nose hooked, and her eyes green. Her smile could make any of us agree to perform the dingiest tasks—spraying down the concrete floors of the bathrooms, for example, or cleaning up a shit someone had taken on the men’s-room floor. At the waterslide, she always wore a red bikini, and when she leaned forward to blow her whistle or tell a child to move away from the bottom of the slide there was an ever so slight bulge of flesh beneath her breasts. She and Dave Z. did it in the waterslide office on the black vinyl chair. They did it in the showers on a cloudy afternoon. They did it in Jacques Michaud’s office, on his desk, when Jacques Michaud wasn’t there. Jacques Michaud was oblivious. He walked around the sandy paths of the park with his head down, looking for pieces of glass. When he looked up, he seemed to be staring at a lone house—the local millionaire’s—on the pine-covered mountain opposite. Occasionally, Amy and I worked together at the top of the slide. Because I couldn’t work the lift, I spent a lot of time up there—in a high, sunny, sandy clearing, surrounded by white pines and hemlocks and scraggly junipers—showing the people who emerged from the path in the woods how to use their sleds. One afternoon, it was slow, and Amy and I were left sitting in the sun by ourselves. She was wearing her bathing suit to tan. I asked her what the virus was that had kept her out of school for a year. She said the doctors had had about five different explanations and that none of them had made sense, that they’d tested her for everything, even syphilis. Sometimes her arm had been numb, or her leg, off and on, for a night or a day; and she’d felt tired. One doctor had told her that it was growing pains. Another had said that she was depressed. She laughed and said that it didn’t matter now, because she was fine. She took a carrot stick out of a Baggie and offered me one. “It made me realize that I should study more,” she said. “Once I get to college, I’m going to study all the time.” She tucked her hair behind her ears and smiled. Her cheeks were round when she smiled, and she suddenly seemed very young. I smiled, too, for no reason, and a bunch of kids came out of the woods with their sleds, laughing and shouting, then stood by the slide for five minutes arguing over who was faster. They made us count down for them so that they could race, in sets of two. After they left, it was quiet. Two dark-blue dragonflies sloped through the clearing. I stared at the red berries on the junipers, the shiny green leaves of the checkerberries below—and then I asked her when Jacques had taken the picture for the brochure. She said a few days before the park opened. I asked her if he’d paid her to do it. She shrugged and said that he’d offered, but she’d said no. She didn’t see why he should. “It wasn’t a big thing,” she said. “Did he take it himself?” I asked. She stared at me. “Of course he took it himself. He’s not a millionaire.” She frowned a bit. “He was very sweet,” she said. “It wasn’t weird.” I nodded. Then she asked me if I had a boyfriend. I shook my head. “Well, you’re not missing anything,” she said. “It’s a pain in the ass.” I nodded. She leaned back and closed her eyes. By late June, we didn’t have six hundred people a day. We didn’t have five hundred. For three days it rained, and when the sun came back the chairlift malfunctioned and for two days Jacques sold half-price tickets. My father tallied the gross income from three hundred customers a day on the back of our electric bill, subtracting estimated employee incomes and making various other columns under an all-caps heading, “overhead,” and concluded that Jacques couldn’t be making a profit. But I thought he was. He had an air of contentment. He spent every morning checking the mechanics of the slide, and he was especially careful about the sleds. He made the maintenance guys check every sled every day—Were the runners straight? Did the brakes work?—which seemed excessive, since each rider had to check the brakes before heading down, and, besides, you didn’t need brakes. A ride without brakes was a wild ride. We’d all done it, and we all had slide burn as a result. It was a strange wound. Only the first few layers of skin, whatever portion had skimmed the slide—usually the knees or the backs of the arms or thighs—were affected, and the burns didn’t bleed; they oozed pink fluid. They could be as large as a hand or as small as a dime, and they hurt, but only until the E.M.T. in the emergency shack put the iodine on. Then they stung for an instant and pulsed for a few days. Soon they faded to a slippery shine, a pale shade of lilac, and they seemed to travel, so that months later you’d be looking for one, to show someone, and it would be somewhere else on your arm, somewhere different from where it had been. Or maybe you’d just remembered it wrong. Jacques caught me pushing one of mine with a thumb one day when I was working at the bottom of the slide. The day was slow, and everything smelled like heat: the slide, my skin, the dirt that slid along the ground in the breeze. Jacques grabbed my arm, glanced at the burn, and said that it was pretty good. Then he stood next to me and looked around the park. A group of maintenance guys were shuffling by on their way to the sled-repair shack, where they got high between jobs. Jacques watched them go. His feet were spread wide in the dirt and he crossed his arms over his damp shirt. Then he asked me which one of them I had a crush on. I looked at them. They were all gaunt, except for one, who had dark hair, a paunch, and a soft, dopey look. I shrugged. “I know,” he said. “I know.” I watched him walk off toward the waterslide. When he got there, he waved to the people by the pool, of which there were only two, because Amy Goldman and Dave Z. weren’t present. Jacques stopped in front of the closed office door. The mat was over the window. He stood there, looking at the mat, for about ten seconds. Then he turned around. He glanced at the chubby, sunburned lifeguard who’d stood up from his stool out of nervousness. “Wrong office,” he said. He turned when he was halfway down the ramp. “If you see Dave Z.,” he said, “tell him to stop by and see me.” Dave Z. wouldn’t tell anyone what Jacques said that day. But after that he made small talk with the customers, cleaned his nails when he thought no one was looking, and said “Please” and “Thank you” when he told us to do something. On the last day of June, we had a hundred and thirty-two guests. Jacques stopped me as I was delivering a box of cheeseburgers to the waterslide. His face was red from heat, and the fabric under his arms was yellow. He gestured to the people waiting to ride the lift. “You see this?” I nodded. His hand dismissed the line. “You’ll wish for this in July,” he said. Then he tugged his baseball cap down, put his hands in his pockets, and trudged toward the lodge. But when the Fourth came it was so humid that the air seemed tinged by the colors of people’s clothes. Dewdrops formed on the slide, and every half hour two of us had to ride down pushing towels in front of our sleds with our feet to dry it off. We never closed unless we felt drops or saw lightning—so we were open, but no one came. That night the fireworks above the lake were blurry, and mosquitoes made a faint sound, like the echo of a tuning fork. It wasn’t just us. The economy was strong, but our town was dead. The swarm of tourists that had arrived in past years hadn’t materialized. The boardwalk at Bear Beach was quiet. The lake was a vast blue. Lone motorboats buzzed by empty beaches. Our local news reported that the people who’d come to our town in the past—mostly from Massachusetts—weren’t coming now because they had more money and could go to Europe. “I could have told him,” my father said. “The alpine slide is just not a great idea. I’m not sure why he thought he could do what no one else could.” Jacques announced a tightening of the belt. He spoke about the difference between the behavior he’d seen and the behavior he wanted to see. He said that he thought we could work a little harder. He said this with perfect equanimity, and soon afterward Amy Goldman and Dave Z. quarrelled. He was going back to college in a month. He was thinking about the future. He wanted to date other people. She gave him an ultimatum. Out of all or nothing, he chose nothing. Now when he spoke to her it was the same way he spoke to everyone else, to tell her to hose out the rest rooms. Their awkwardness would have affected us, but we were busy working hard, which was difficult, since it was quiet and there was little to do. In mid-July, we each met with Jacques Michaud in his office to see if we’d get a raise. When I went in he was sitting behind his desk, a dinged-up metal one that had been in the basement office for at least ten years. He was smoking a cigar. “I don’t need a raise,” I said. I told him that I was worried about the park. I explained it stupidly, in detail. I was so nervous that I was stuttering. He grinned. “We’re doing O.K.,” he said. “We’re doing all right. Don’t worry about the park.” Then he said something strange. He said that I was the best worker he had. He said that I had the nicest smile. He said that I made customers feel happy they’d come. “Everyone should treat customers like you treat them,” he said. “You think I haven’t seen you, but I have. You work hard.” On my way out, he stopped me. “Come by after work and have a drink with us sometime,” he said. “Stay and talk.” I wanted to. But from then on the gatherings were cancelled, because the next day, a day when we were actually busy, a woman came down the slide with her face burned off. It was a beautiful morning, and an alabaster light had clapped down over the entire park. Mica gleamed on the sandy paths, and the upturned orange flowers were white at their tips. I was stationed at the bottom of the slide. I’d been telling people to hurry up and get off so that the people behind them could come down. The woman’s sled was moving slowly. She was leaning forward, but she had no momentum and the sled just stopped fifty feet up the hill. I yelled at her to keep going, and then two sleds came down fast behind her and bumped her rear and her sled inched forward a bit. She looked up. Her cheeks, nose, and forehead were the red of semiprecious gems. She didn’t move—she sat in her sled and stared ahead. A line of kids waited morosely behind her while I climbed up the hill. I helped her up and pulled her sled off the track. The woman walked with me quietly. She had short curly brown hair thinning at the crown, and was stout. She was maybe thirty-five or forty. I asked her what had happened. She said that halfway down the mountain she’d been thrown from her sled. She thought she’d hit something. I nodded, though I couldn’t think what she might have hit. Her face was oozing the tiniest pricks of blood, as if from a cheese grater, and it made me nervous, so I took her hand. “Don’t worry,” I said. “It usually disappears.” But when we reached the E.M.T. shack the E.M.T. took one look and called an ambulance. Jacques held a meeting. Most likely, he said, the accident had been caused by a rock in the track. This was an unforeseeable and bizarre circumstance. He was doing everything in his power to help the woman, he said. She was in the best hospital. She was comfortable. In a day, she’d be able to go back to her job. There was no problem. However, to prevent future bizarre events we would now wipe the track down twice in the morning, instead of once, and twice again in the afternoon. Jacques said all this, but he didn’t sound sure of it. He looked as though he hadn’t slept. He cleared his throat. The potential complication, he said, was a lawsuit. But he had visited the woman in the hospital, he had promised to pay for the surgery she’d need once her face healed, and she had said that she wouldn’t sue. And he believed her. Did we know why? Someone suggested that it was his charm. “Come on,” Jacques said. “I’m not that charming. Look at my face. See this face?” He gestured. His face was sweaty and red. “It’s an ugly face,” he said. Someone said, “It’s not like she was a movie star.” The guy who’d said it was a tall, sarcastic redhead who’d once, as a joke, asked me when I was going to go out with him. I’d treasured the question even though he’d walked off before I could answer. Now Jacques stared at him. The guy stared back. “I don’t care,” Jacques said. “And I don’t want to hear anyone say that again.” “It’s no one’s fault,” someone said. “It was an act of God.” Jacques spat on the floor. “It wasn’t an act of God.” “Why not?” He stared at us incredulously. “Because it was a rock. In the track.” No one said anything else. He sighed. Then he put on his baseball cap. “This woman works at Kmart,” he said. “She lives in a trailer, she doesn’t have a washer and dryer, and she’s not going to sue because she’s from New Hampshire. She’s a local.” He wiped his forehead. “Locals don’t sue,” he said. “It’s those bastards from Massachusetts that sue.” Two nights later, the woman was on TV. Except for holes for her eyes and mouth, her face was a swath of white cloth. She was sitting on a brown couch with her hands in her lap. The deflated folds of her stomach slumped over her jeans. She told the interviewer that her life would never be the same. The interviewer asked her if she was planning to sue. At first, she didn’t answer. She just sniffed a lot. Then she said, “What do you think?” She said some things about how her children would look at her, then she started bawling and they cut the tape. My father shook his head. He said that it was a shame. He said that he’d always been impressed with Jacques’s initiative, he’d always liked the park, and it was a shame that a woman would destroy a good business with a lawsuit. As soon as both of my parents were asleep that night, I climbed out my window. I wanted to warn Jacques Michaud. The woman was suing, and I thought that if he knew about it he could do something, like pay her off. I felt sure that he’d want to do that. I put on sneakers, a turquoise-blue tank top that I thought I looked pretty in, and shorts for maneuverability. I swung from my window onto the sunroof, crawled down its steep shingles, and dropped ten feet onto grass. Then I walked in the heavy dark over the pass. There were a few houses along the way, the houses of old people, but their lights had long since gone off. The moon was nearly full, and the tops of the trees swayed blackly in the tar-blue sky. First warped pavement, then oiled dirt rose up under my feet. I stumbled every few minutes. As the road narrowed and became a path, mosquitoes whined by my ear and pines left pitch on my arms. My heart was beating fast. In my head, I was already there. The whole basement was lit. Music was playing and people were laughing and drinking, looking lovely, all while forming a plan to save the park. When I arrived, they would welcome me and I would come up with the solution, and, while they would have been attracted to me before, now they would love me. By the time I headed down the hill, tripping down the ghostly white slide, I had forgotten that I had no solution. Below, in the clearing, the lodge looked dark. There were only two cars in the lot. Little black things were swooping through the inky sky above the chalets. When I tried the door, it was locked. I knocked. I could see a faint light through the keyhole. I knocked again. I called Jacques’s name. The black bushes swayed in the breeze by the basement windows. I walked along the perimeter until I reached the one with the light. I squatted down to peer through. In the room, Jacques’s room, were two people on a mattress. They were wrapped around each other in a million ways. The man’s hair was white, his body dark and thick. The woman’s mouth opened in an expression of sorrow, her eyes narrowed, her hands grasped his hair, and she kissed him. It was Amy Goldman. Her blond hair was a gold light that filled the foot of space between her head and the pillow. I felt as if an army were marching through my heart, singing a terrible and joyous song. Jacques placed his hand behind her head and whispered something into her ear. I walked home. When I reported to work the next morning, no one was there. My parents made gestures at pity, and my older sister offered to get me a job at the motel where she worked as a chambermaid. The next day, Jacques was on the front page of the local newspaper. Jacques Michaud, park operator, had skipped town, the article said, owing thousands in electric bills and evading the pending lawsuit of one Charlotte Blanc. In fact, he was not Jacques Michaud. He was Mike Vost, from Chicago, where he was wanted for tax fraud and for operating a bar without a license. As a side note, he had been running the park without insurance. The last person to have seen him was Harry, who owned Harry’s Garage in town, and who’d bought his Mark VII Jaguar for four thousand dollars, at two thousand under book. The park was closed until further notice. For two days, I moped around the house. I refused to take the motel job. On the third day, my mother said she wanted me outside, so I put on sneakers and walked over the pass. I walked down the slide. I could see the black figure eights from when they’d greased it last. The Cannonball was dry, the huts of the craft village closed, and the lot, when I reached it, was empty. I tried the door of the lodge. It was open. Inside, nothing had changed. The slope signs were still on the walls. The kitchen hummed. In the freezer, rows of beef patties were crusted with ice. In the fridge, the vats of Jell-O were growing hard. I walked out and around the back. A car was parked there, with its trunk open. I was peering into the trunk when Jacques came out of the lodge. He was grinning. In the trunk, I could see a suitcase and a lot of loose, junky-looking clothes. He hugged me. He squeezed me tight. I didn’t want him to let go. He let go. He pushed me away and crossed his arms over his chest. “I’m not really here,” he said. I nodded. “I had a few things to pick up.” I nodded. He cleared his throat. “Look,” he said. He stared intently at me. “I offered that woman five thousand dollars. It would have paid for her operation. I offered.” I evaluated this. I said, “Are you in love with Amy Goldman?” He gestured to the car. “This is my new car,” he said. “Like it?” It was tiny, a red hatchback, rusted all over. “It’s kind of small,” he said, “but I fit in it.” “It’s all right,” I said. “Come here,” he said. I stayed where I was. “The whole world is in love with Amy Goldman,” he said. Then he said that he wasn’t in love with her, but that he liked her a lot and was sure she’d do well in college. I asked him how his wife had died. I felt suddenly very bold and skilled at conversation. He looked surprised, then sad. I thought he was going to tell me to fuck off. But instead he slumped. After a minute, he said that he’d screwed up the marriage and that she lived in Jacksonville, Florida, and was married to a tax attorney. Then he shrugged. “Come here,” he said. “Give me another hug.” I did. I thought he might take me with him. I was ready to get into the car. But he held me at arm’s length. “You’re too quiet,” he said. “The world won’t come to you. You can wait as long as you want. It won’t come to you. You can wait as long as you want. And then it will be gone.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Scheme of Things	Lance vanished behind the white door of the men’s room and when he came out a few minutes later he was utterly changed. Gone was the tangled nest of thinning black hair, gone was the shadow of beard, gone, too, was the grime on his hands, the crescents of black beneath his blunt, chewed nails. Shaving had sharpened the lines of his jaw and revealed the face of a younger man. His shirt was tucked neatly into his trousers and buttoned up to his throat. He looked as clean and bland as an evangelist. He bowed to Kirsten with a stagy sweep of his hand and entered the gas station. All business, he returned immediately with the attendant in tow, a kid of sixteen, seventeen. “This here’s my wife, Kirsten,” Lance said. Kirsten smiled. “Pleased,” the kid said. He crawled under the chassis of the car and inspected the tailpipe. “Your whole underside’s rusted to hell,” he said, standing up, wiping his hands clean of red dust. “I’m surprised you haven’t fallen through.” “I don’t know much about cars,” Lance said. “Well,” the kid said, his face bright with expertise, “you should replace everything, right up to the manifold. It’s a big job. It’ll take a day, and it’ll cost you.” “You can do it?” Kirsten asked. “Sure,” the kid said. “No problem.” Lance squinted at the oval patch above the boy’s shirt pocket. “Randy,” he said, “what’s the least we can do?” “My name’s Bill,” the kid said. “Randy’s a guy used to work here.” “So, Bill, what’s the least we can get away with?” “Strap it up, I suppose. It’ll probably hold until you get where you’re going. Loud as hell, though.” The kid looked at Kirsten. His clear blue eyes lingered on her chest. “We represent a charity.” Lance handed the kid one of the printed pamphlets, watching his eyes skim back and forth as he took in the information. “Outside of immediate and necessary expenses, we don’t have much money.” “Things are sure going to hell,” the kid said. He shook his head, returning the pamphlet to Lance. “Seems that way,” Lance said. The kid hurried into the station and brought back a coil of pipe strap. While he was under the car, Lance sat on the warm hood, listening to the wind rustle in the corn. Brown clouds of soil rose from the fields and gave the air a sepia tint. Harvest dust settled over the leaves of a few dying elms, over the windows of a cinder-block building, over the trailers in the courtyard across the street. One of the trailer doors swung open. Two Indians and a cowgirl climbed down the wooden steps. It was Halloween. “You got a phone?” Lance asked. “Inside,” the kid said. Lance looked down and saw the soles of the kid’s work boots beneath the car, a patch of dirty sock visible through the hole widening in one of them. He walked away, into the station. The kid hadn’t charged them a cent, and they now sat at an intersection, trying to decide on a direction. The idle was rough. The car detonated like a bomb. “Here’s your gum,” Lance said. He emptied his front and back pockets and pulled the cuff of his pants up his leg and reached under the elastic band of his gym socks. Pink and green and blue and red packages of gum piled up in Kirsten’s lap. He pulled a candy bar from his shirt pocket and began sucking away at the chocolate coating. “One pack would’ve been fine,” Kirsten said. “A gumball would have been fine.” “Land of plenty, sweetheart,” he said. Kirsten softened up a piece of pink gum and blew a large round bubble until it burst and the gum hung like flesh from her nose. “Without money, we’re just trying to open a can of beans with a cucumber,” Lance said. “It doesn’t matter how hungry we are, how desirous of those beans we are—without the right tools, those beans might as well be on the moon.” Lance laughed to himself. “Moon beans,” he said. Kirsten got out of the car. The day was turning cold, turning to night. She leaned through the open window, smelling the warm air that was wafting unpleasantly with the mixed scent of chocolate and diesel. “What’s your gut feel?” Lance asked. “I don’t know, Lance.” She walked toward the intersection. Ghosts and witches crossed from house to house, holding paper sacks and pillowcases. The street lights sputtered nervously in the fading twilight. With the cold wind cutting through her T-shirt, Kirsten felt her nipples harden. She was small-breasted and sensitive and the clasp on her only bra had broken. She untucked the shirt and hunched her shoulders forward so that the nipples wouldn’t show, but still the dark circles pressed against the white cotton. The casual clothes that Lance had bought her in Key Biscayne, Florida, had come to seem like a costume and were now especially flimsy and ridiculous here in Tiffin, Iowa. A young girl crossed the road, and Kirsten followed her. She thought she might befriend the girl and take her home, a gambit, playing on the gratitude of the worried parents that Kirsten always imagined when she saw a child alone. The pavement gave way to gravel and the gravel to dirt, and finally a narrow path in the weeds dipped through a dragline ditch and vanished into a cornfield. The girl was gone. Kirsten waited at the edge of the field, listening to the wind, until she caught a glimpse of the little girl again, far down one of the rows, sitting and secretly eating candy from her sack. “You’ll spoil your dinner,” Kirsten said. The girl clutched the neck of her sack and shook her head. Entering the field felt to Kirsten like wading from shore and finding herself, with one fatal step, out to sea. She sat in the dirt, facing the girl. The corn rose over their heads and blew in waves, bending with the wind. “Aren’t you cold?” Kirsten said. “I’m cold.” “Are you a stranger?” the girl asked. “What’s a stranger?” “Somebody that kills you.” “No, then, I’m not a stranger.” Kirsten picked a strand of silk that hung in the little girl’s hair. “I’m your friend,” she said. “Why are you hiding?” “I’m not hiding. I’m going home.” “Through this field?” Kirsten said. “I know my way,” the little girl said. The girl was dressed in a calico frock and dirty pink pumps, but Kirsten wasn’t quite sure it was a costume. A rim of red lipstick distorted the girl’s mouth grotesquely, and blue moons of eyeshadow gave her face an unseeing vagueness. “What are you supposed to be?” Kirsten asked. The girl squeezed a caramel from its cellophane wrapper, and said, “A grownup.” “It’s getting dark,” Kirsten said. “You aren’t scared?” The little girl shrugged and chewed the caramel slowly. Juice dribbled down her chin. “Let me take you back home.” “No,” the girl said. “You can’t stay out here all by yourself.” The girl recoiled when Kirsten grabbed her hand. “Let me go,” she screamed, her thin body jolting away. “Let me go!” The fury in her voice shocked Kirsten, and she felt the small fingers slip like feathers from her hand. When the girl ran off through the rows of corn, it was as if the wind had taken her away. Instantly, she was nowhere and everywhere. In every direction, the stalks swayed and the dry leaves turned as if the little girl, passing by, had just brushed against them. When Kirsten finally found her way out of the field, she was in another part of town. She walked the length of the street, looking for signs, deciding at last on a two-story house in the middle of the block. A trike lay tipped over in the rutted grass, and a plastic pool of water held a scum of leaves. Clay pots with dead marigolds—woolly brown swabs on bent, withered stalks—lined the steps. A family of carved pumpkins sat on the porch rail, smiling toothy candle-lit grins that flickered to black, guttering in laughter with every gust of wind. On the porch, newspapers curled beside a milk crate. Warm yellow light lit the downstairs and a woman’s shadow flitted across a steam-clouded kitchen window. Kirsten heard a radio playing. She knocked on the door. The woman answered. Her hair was knotted up on her head with a blue rubber band, a few fugitive strands dangling down over her ears, one graying wisp curling around her eye. A smudge of flour dusted her cheek. “Yes?” the woman said. “Evening, Ma’am.” Kirsten handed the woman a flyer. “I’m with B.A.D.,” she said. “Babies Addicted to Drugs. Are you busy?” The woman switched on the porch light and held the printed flyer close to her face. Closing one eye, she studied the bold-red statistics on the front of the page and then flipped it over and looked into the face of the dark, shrivelled baby on the back. “Doesn’t hardly look human, does it?” Kirsten said. “No, I can’t say it does,” the woman said. “That’s what’s happening out there, Ma’am. That, and worse.” Kirsten looked off down the road, east to where the town ended and the world opened up to cornfields and darkening sky. She thought of the little girl. “Smells nice inside,” Kirsten said. “Cookies,” the woman said. “You mind if I come in?” The woman looked quickly down the road and, seeing nothing there, said, “Sure. For a minute.” Kirsten sat in a Naugahyde recliner that had been angled to face the television. Across from her was a couch covered with a clear plastic sheet. The woman returned with a plate of cookies. She set them in front of Kirsten and slipped a coaster under a coffee cup full of milk. “My partner and me have been assigned to the Midwest territory,” Kirsten said. “I got into this when I was living in New Jersey and saw it all with my own eyes and couldn’t stand by and do nothing. Those babies were just calling out to me for help.” “I’ve got three children myself,” the woman said. “That’s what the cookies are for,” Kirsten said. She bit into one and tasted the warm chocolate. “Homemade,” the woman said. “But the kids like store-bought. All they want is Wing Dings or what have you.” “They’ll appreciate it later, Ma’am. I know they will. They’ll remember it and love you.” In the low light, Kirsten again noticed the spectral smudge of flour on the woman’s cheek—she had reached to touch herself in a still, private moment as she thought of something she couldn’t quite recall, a doubt too weak to claim a place in the clamor of her day. “That baby on the flyer isn’t getting any homemade cookies. That baby was born addicted to drugs. There’s women I’ve personally met who would do anything to get their drugs and don’t care what all happens to their kids. There’s babies getting pitched out windows and dumped in trash cans and born in public lavatories.” “Things are terrible, I’m sure, but I can’t give you any money. I worked all day making the kids Halloween costumes—they want store-bought, of course, but they can’t have them, not this year.” “What’re they going to be?” “Janie’s a farmer, Randall’s a ghost. Kenny’s costume was the hardest. He’s a devil with a cape and hood and a tail.” If she could coax five dollars out of this woman, Kirsten thought, she could buy a cheap bra out of a bin at the dime store. Her breasts ached. When she’d seen the trike on the lawn out front, she’d assumed that this woman would reach immediately for her pocketbook. “With a ten-dollar donation, you get your choice of two magazine subscriptions, free of charge for a year.” Kirsten showed the woman the list of magazines. “Cosmo,” she said. “Vogue, Redbook, all them.” “I’m sorry,” the woman said. The front window washed with white light. “You had better go.” The woman stood up. “I don’t have any use for your magazines.” On the porch, they met a man, his face darkened with the same brown dirt and dust that had rolled through and clouded the sky that day. Spikes of straw stabbed his hair and the pale-gray molt of a barn swallow clung to his plaid shirt. A silent look passed between the man and the woman, and Kirsten hurried away, down the steps. “I thought she was trick-or-treating,” the woman said as she shut the door. “Nothing?” Lance said. “Nothing?” Kirsten tore the wrapping from another piece of gum. They had driven to the outskirts of town, where the light ended and the pavement gave way to gravel and the road, rutted like a washboard, snaked off toward a defile choked with cottonwoods. Every street out of town seemed to dead-end in farmland, and here a lighted combine swept back and forth over the field, rising and falling like a ship over high seas. The combine’s engine roared as it moved past them, crushing a path through the dry corn. “A man came home,” Kirsten said. “So?” “So the lady got all nervous and said I had to go.” “Should’ve worked the man,” Lance said. He ran his finger along the outline of her breasts, as if he were drawing a cartoon bust. “We’ve talked about that. A man’ll give money just to be a man about things.” “I’m too skinny,” Kirsten said. “You’re filling out, I’ve noticed. You’re getting some shape to you.” Lance smiled his smile, a wide, white grin with a hole in the middle of it. Two of his teeth had fallen out, owing to a weakness for sweets. He worried his tongue in the empty space, slithering it in and out along the bare gum. “I wish I had a fix right now,” Kirsten said. She hugged herself to stop a chill radiating from her spine. The ghost of her habit trailed after her. Again the voracious growling of the combine came near. Kirsten watched the golden kernels spray into the holding bin. A man sat up front in a glass booth, smoking a pipe, a yellow cap tilted back on his head. “My cowboy brain’s about dead,” Lance said. “What do you think?” Kirsten had died once, and had made the mistake, before she understood how superstitious he was, of telling Lance about it. Her heart had stopped and she had drifted toward a white light that rose away from her like a windblown sheet, hovering over what she recognized as her cluttered living room. She was placid, and smiling into the faces of people she had never seen before, people she realized instantly were relatives, aunts and uncles, cousins, the mother she had never known. Kirsten had grown up in foster care, but now this true mother reached toward her from within the source of light, her pale-pink hands fluttering like the wings of a bird. A sense of calm told Kirsten that this was the afterlife, where brand-new rules obtained. She woke in a Key Biscayne hospital, her foster mother in a metal chair beside the bed, two uniformed cops standing at the door, ready to read Kirsten her rights. “Don’t always ask me,” Kirsten said. “Just close your eyes, honey. Close ’em and tell me the first thing you see.” With her eyes closed, she saw the little girl, alone, running, lost in the corn. “Let’s get out of here,” she said. “That’s what you saw?” “Start the car, O.K.? I can’t explain everything I see.” She had met him in Florida, in her second year of detention. Her special problem was heroin, his was methamphetamine. They lived in a compound of low pink cinder-block buildings situated maddeningly close to a thoroughfare with a strip of shops, out beyond a chain-link fence and a greenbelt. At night, neon lights lit up the swaying palm fronds and banana plants, fringing the tangled jungle with exotic highlights of pink and blue. They’d climbed the fence together, running through the greenbelt, disappearing into the fantastic jungle. A year passed in a blur of stupid jobs—for Lance, stints driving a cab, delivering flowers, and, for Kirsten, tearing movie tickets in half as a stream of happy dreamers clicked through the turnstiles, then sweeping debris from the floors in the dead-still hours when the decent world slept. Lance worked a second job deep-frying doughnuts in blackened vats of oil, dressed in a white suit. But this, Lance had said, this would allow them to turn their backs on that year, on everything they’d done for survival. A regular at the doughnut shop had set them up with their kit—the picture ID, the magazine subscriptions, the pamphlets. Although the deal worked like a pyramid scheme, it wasn’t entirely a scam; a thin layer of legality existed, and ten per cent of the money collected actually went to the babies. Another ten per cent was skimmed by collectors in the field and the remainder was mailed to a P.O. box in Key Biscayne. Of that, the recruiters took a percentage, and the recruiters of the recruiters took an even bigger cut. That’s the way it was supposed to work, but when Lance and Kirsten left Florida the tenuous sense of obligation weakened and finally vanished, and Lance was no longer sending any money to the P.O. box. They were renegade now; they kept everything. Lance got out of the car. He tried to break the dragging tailpipe free, but it wouldn’t budge. He wiped his hands. Down the road the yellow lights of a farmhouse glowed like portals. A dog barked and the wind soughing through the corn called hoarsely. “The worst they can do is say no,” Lance said. “They won’t,” Kirsten said. Lance grabbed his ledger and a sheaf of pamphlets and his ID. They left the car and walked down the road in the milky light of a gibbous moon that lit the feathery edges of a high, isolated cloud. The house was white, and seemed illuminated, as did the ghostly white fence and the silver silo. When they opened the gate, the dog barked wildly and charged them, quickly using up its length of chain; its neck snapped and the barking stopped, and when the dog regained its feet it followed them in a semicircle, as if tracing a path drawn by a compass. Before they could knock, an old woman answered with a bowl of candy. Her hair was thin and white, more the memory or suggestion of hair than the thing itself. Her eyes were blue and the lines of her creased face held the image of the land around her, worn and furrowed. Her housedress drifted vaguely around her body like a fog. “Evening, Ma’am,” Lance said. When he was done delivering his introduction on the evils of drugs, he turned to Kirsten for her part, but she said nothing, letting the silence become a burden. The whole of the night—the last crickets chirring in the cold, the brown moths beating against the yellow light, the moon shadows and the quiet that came, faintly humming, from the land itself—pressed in close, weighing on the woman. Finally, Kirsten said, “If you could give us a place to stay for the night, we’d be grateful.” Lance said, “Now, honey, we can’t impose.” “I’m tired and I’m cold,” Kirsten said. Again the silence accumulated around them like a world filling with water. “My husband’s gone up to bed,” the woman said at last. “I hate to wake Effie.” “No need,” Kirsten said. “If we could just sleep tonight in your girl’s room, we’ll be gone in the morning.” “My girl?” “That’s a lovely picture she drew,” Kirsten said, “and it’s wonderful that you hang it in the living room. You must have loved her very much.” A quelling hand went to the woman’s lips. She backed away from the door— not so much a welcome as a surrender, a ceding of the space—and Kirsten and Lance entered. Years of sunlight had slowly paled the wallpaper in the living room and drained the red from the plastic roses on the sill. A familiar path was padded into the carpet and a pair of suède slippers waited at their place by the sofa. The air in the house was warm and still and faintly stale like a held breath. In the morning, Kirsten woke feeling queasy and sat up on the cramped child’s mattress. She pulled aside the curtain. The old couple were in the back yard. The wife was hanging a load of wash on a line, socks, a bra, underwear, linens that unfurled like flags in the wind. The husband hoed weeds from a thinning garden of gaunt cornstalks, black-stemmed tomato plants, and a few last, lopsided pumpkins that sat sad-faced on the ground, saved from rot by a bedding of straw. A cane swung from a belt loop in his dungarees. “Any dreams?” Lance said. He reached for Kirsten, squeezing her thigh. “Who needs dreams?” Kirsten said, letting the curtain fall back. “Bitter, bitter,” Lance said. “Don’t be bitter.” He picked his slacks off the floor and shook out the pockets, unfolding the crumpled bills and arranging the coins in separate stacks on his stomach. “Let’s see where we’re at,” he said. Lance grabbed his notebook from the floor and thumbed the foxed, dirty pages in which he kept a meticulous tally of their finances. “You don’t need a pencil and paper,” Kirsten said. “Discipline is important,” he said. “When we strike it rich, we don’t want to be all stupid and clueless. Can you see them old folks out there?” “They’re out there.” “It must be something to live in a place like this,” Lance said. He put down the notebook and peered out the window. “Just go out and get yourself some corn when you’re hungry.” He pressed his hand flat against the glass. In the field to the east, the corn had been gathered, the ground laid bare. “It looks weird out there.” Kirsten had noticed it also. “It looks like we’re too late,” she said. “That’s the whole problem with the seventies.” “It’s 1989, Lance.” “Well, then, high time we do something about it.” He pulled the curtain closed. “I’m sick and tired of washing my crotch in sinks.” “I’ll go out and talk to them,” Kirsten said. “Where’d you go last night?” Lance said. “After the gas station.” She didn’t want to say, and said, “Nowhere.” “Get a look at yourself in that mirror there,” he said. Kirsten sat in a child’s chair, looking at herself in the mirror of a vanity that had also doubled as a desk at one time—beside the perfume bottles and a hairbrush and a box of costume jewelry were cups of crayons and pens and pencils and a yellowed writing tablet. Kirsten leaned her head to the side and began to brush her hair, combing the leaves and dirt out of it. “Lance,” she said. “Yeah?” “Don’t take anything from these people.” “You can’t hide anything from me,” he said, with an assured, tolerant smile. Kirsten set down the brush, and walked out into the yard, where the old woman was stretched on her toes, struggling to hang a last billowing sheet. “Lend me a hand here,” she said. “The wind’s blowing so—” Kirsten held an end and helped fasten the sheet. Blowing dust clung to the wet cotton. “I probably shouldn’t even bother hanging out the wash, this time of year,” the old woman said. She pronounced it “warsh.” The combine’s swallowing mouth opened a path along the fence. The old woman shuddered and turned away. “You have a beautiful place,” Kirsten said. “All this land yours?” “We got two sections. Daddy’s too old to work it now, so we lease everything to a commercial outfit in Kalona.” “You must eat a lot of corn.” “Oh, hon, that’s not sweet corn. That corn’s for hogs. It’s feed.” “Oh,” she said. “That blue Rabbit up the road yours?” The old man walked with an injured stoop, punting himself forward with the cane. He introduced himself—Effie Bowen, Effie and his wife, Gen. He was short of breath and gritted his teeth as if biting the difficult air. A rime of salt stained the brim of his red cap. “That’s us, I’m sorry to say.” He tipped the hat back, bringing his eyes out of the shade. “Momma thinks I can tow you with the tractor,” he said. “I say she’s right. I went and looked at it this morning.” “I’m not sure we can afford any major repairs,” Kirsten said. “You work for a children’s charity,” the old woman said. “That’s right.” “We’ll get you going,” the man said. “Up to the Mennonites, right, Momma?” The old woman nodded. “I put towels out. You kids help yourselves to a hot shower, and meanwhile Daddy and me’ll tow your car up to the plain people and then we’ll just see.” “We’d like to go into town,” Kirsten said. “If that’s O.K.” “Sure,” the old woman said. She looked at her husband. “Yeah?” “Of course, yes. Yes.” Main Street was wide and empty, the storefronts colorless in the flat light. A traffic signal swaying over the only intersection ticked like a clock in the quiet. Feeling faint, her stomach cramping, Kirsten sat on the curb. A hand-lettered sign on a sheet of unpainted plywood leaned against a low stucco building, advertising Fresh Eggs, Milk, Broccoli, Cherries, Bread, Potatoes, Watermelon, Strawberries, Root Beer, Antiques. “No corn,” Lance observed, pitching a rock at the sign. “So, you gonna tell me?” She shook her head. “I just went for a walk, Lance. Nowhere,” she said, pressing a print of her hand in the dust. She was wary of Lance, knowing that if she let him he would tap her every mood. He believed that a rich and deserved life ran parallel to theirs, a life that she alone could see, and he would probe her dreams for directions and tease her premonitions for meanings, as if her nightmares and moods gave her access to a world of utter certainty, when in fact Kirsten knew the truth—that every dream was a reservoir of doubt. A life spent revolving through institutions had taught her that. Foster care, detox, detention—even the woman she called Mother was an institution, a fumbling scheme. Her improvised family of shifting faces sat together in common rooms furnished with donated sofas and burned lampshades and ashtrays of cut green glass, in lounges that were more home to her than home ever was, the inmates more family than she’d ever known. It was in those lounges, on mornings that never began, through nights that wouldn’t end, that Kirsten had elaborated her sense of the other world. She had stripped her diet of the staples of institutional life—the starches, the endless urns of coffee and the sugar cubes and creamers, the cigarettes. She’d cropped her hair short and stopped wearing jewelry, and one afternoon, while the janitor mopped the hallway, she’d slipped the watch from her wrist and dumped it into his dingy bucket of water. She’d cleaned her room and kept it spare, and was considered a model inmate, neat and quiet and nearly invisible. By experimenting, she discovered that the only deeply quiet time on the ward was in the dark hour before dawn, and so she’d begun to wake at 4 a.m., first with an alarm clock, then automatically, easing from sleep into a stillness that was as spacious and as close to freedom as anything inside detention could be. Then she would pull a candle from her dresser drawer, melt it to her bedpost, sit in her chair, and stare at the mirror bolted to her wall. For weeks, she waited for something to appear in the clear depth, looking into the glass as if into a great distance. An instinct told her she was trying too hard, but one morning her arms lost life and went leaden, her hands curled, and the mirror turned cloudy, her face fading as if it had sunk below the surface of the glass, and her true mother’s fingers reached toward hers. The next morning, she learned that guiding the images made them go away, and she spent another disconsolate hour staring at herself. Eventually, she was able to sit without panic as her image sank and vanished, and often she emerged from her trances with her own hand stretched to meet the hand in the mirror. Early in her detention, a social worker had advised Kirsten that the only thing better than heroin was a future, and that had been Lance’s gift, a restlessness that seemed focussed on tomorrow, a desire that made the days seem available. But he was impatient, and his sense of her gift was profane and depleting, with every half thought and reverie expected to strike pay dirt. “O.K., fine,” Lance said. “Let’s hit the trailer court.” “I’m tired of those smelly trailers.” “We’ve talked about this I don’t know how many times.” “I want the nice houses. Those people have the money.” “They have the money,” he said, “because they don’t fall for bullshit like ours.” They started up the steps of the biggest and nicest house on the street. With its wide and deep veranda, it seemed to have been built with a different prospect in mind, a more expansive view. Kirsten knocked and wiped her feet on the welcome mat and shuffled through her pamphlets and forms. Dressed in overalls, stuffed with straw, a scarecrow slumped on a porch swing, its head a forlorn sack knotted at the neck with a red kerchief. Kirsten knocked again, and then once more, but no one answered. “See?” Lance said. “See nothing,” Kirsten said. She marched across the lawn to the neighbor’s door. Lance sat on the curb, picking apart a leaf. No one answered her knock. She shuffled through her materials, stalling. “Time to hit the trailer trash,” Lance said. Kirsten ran to the next house. A ghost hung from the awning, and the family name, Strand, was engraved on a wooden plaque above the door. She drew a deep breath and knocked. For some time now, she’d done things Lance’s way. She’d solicited only the homes where she found signs of a shoddy slide—a car on blocks, a windowpane repaired with tape, some loss of contour in the slouching house itself—fissures in somebody else’s hope that she and Lance could crawl through. But what had happened? They’d become sad little children, petty thieves and liars, swiping things that no one would miss—five dollars here, ten dollars there—and laying siege to it with large plans, intricate calculations. Lance had his theories, but lately it had occurred to Kirsten that he was conducting his life with folklore. He had a knack for discovering the reverse of everything—the good were bad, the rich were poor, the great were low and mean—and it was no surprise that they were now living lives that were upside down. A little girl pulled the door open a crack, peering shyly up at Kirsten. “Is your momma home?” “Momma!” The woman who came to the door, wiping her hands on a dish towel, was a fuller version of the little girl, with the same blond hair and blue eyes. Kirsten offered her one of the brochures. The little girl clung to her mother’s leg. She wore one yellow sock and one green, orange dance tights, a purple skirt, a red turtleneck. Kirsten said, “Did you get dressed all by yourself this morning?” The little girl nodded and buried her face in the folds of her mother’s skirt. The mother smiled. “Cuts down on the fighting, right, April? We have a deal. She dresses herself, then she has to eat all her breakfast.” She handed Kirsten the pamphlet. “I just made some coffee,” she said. Kirsten leaned forward in a faded green chair by the window and watched Lance aimlessly tossing rocks and sticks in the street. The woman brought two cups of coffee and a plate with Pop-Tarts, toasted and cut in thirds, fanned around the edges. “You’d be surprised how many around here get into drugs,” she said. “I’m not sure it would surprise me, Ma’am,” Kirsten said. “Everywhere I go I hear stories from people who have been touched by this thing.” She sipped her coffee. “This tragedy.” “I worry about this little one,” the woman said. Kirsten bit a corner of a Pop-Tart, feeling the hot cinnamon glaze on the roof of her mouth. On the mantel above the fireplace was a collection of ceramic owls. They stared steadily into the room with eyes so wide open and unblinking they looked blind. “My owls,” the woman said. “I don’t know how it is you start collecting. It just happens innocently, you think one is cute, then all of a sudden—”she waved her hand in the air—“you’ve got dumb owls all over the place.” “Keep them busy,” Kirsten said. “What’s that?” “April here—and all kids—if they have something to do they won’t have time for drugs.” “That makes sense.” “People think of addicts as these lazy, do-nothing sort of people, but really it’s a full-time job. Most of them work at it harder than these farmers I seen in these cornfields. It takes their entire life.” The woman cupped her hands over her knees, then clasped them together. Either her wedding band was on the sill above the kitchen sink, left there after some chore, or she was divorced. Kirsten felt a rush of new words rise in her throat. “You know what it’s like to be pregnant, so I don’t have to tell you what it means to have that life in you—and then just imagine feeding your baby poison all day. A baby like that one on the pamphlet, if they’re born at all, they just cry all the time. You can’t get them quiet.” It was a chaotic purse, and the woman had to burrow down through wadded Kleenex, key rings, and doll clothes before she pulled out a checkbook. “I never knew my own mother,” Kirsten said. The woman’s pen was poised above the check, but she set it down to look at Kirsten. It was a look Kirsten had lived with all her life and felt ashamed of, seeing something so small and frail and helpless at the heart of other people’s sympathy. They meant well and it meant nothing. “And I never really get away from this feeling,” she went on. “Sadness, you could call it. My mother—my true mother, I mean—is out there, but I’ll never know her. I sometimes get a feeling like she’s watching me in the dark, but that’s about it. You know that sense you get, where you think something’s there and you turn around and, you know, there’s nothing there?” The woman did, she did, with nods of encouragement. “When I think about it, though, I’m better off than these babies. Just look at that little one’s dark face, his shrivelled head. He looks drowned.” Then the woman filled in an amount and signed her name. “I wish I was invisible,” Lance said. “I’d just walk into these houses and they wouldn’t even know.” “And do what?” “Right now I’d make some toast.” “Hungry?” “A little.” “Wouldn’t they see the bread floating around?” “Invisible bread.” “You get that idea from your cowboy brain?” “Don’t make fun of the cowboy brain,” Lance said. “It got us out of that goddam detention. It got us over that fence.” “We’re ghosts to these people, Lance. They already don’t see us.” “I’d like to kill someone. That’d make them see. They’d believe then.” “You’re just talking,” Kirsten said. “I think I’m getting my period.” “Great,” Lance said. “All we need.” “Fuck you,” Kirsten said. “I haven’t had a period in two years.” She turned over one of the pamphlets. Seeing the baby’s inconsolable face reminded Kirsten of a song her foster mother used to sing, but while the melody remained the lyrics were dead to her, because merely thinking of this mother meant collaborating in a lie and everything in it was somehow corrupted. Words to songs never returned to Kirsten readily—she had to think hard just to recall a Christmas carol. “Little babies like that one,” she said, “they’ll scream all the time. Their little hands are jittery. They have terrible fits where they keep squeezing their hands real tight and grabbing the air. They can’t stop shaking, but when you try to hold them they turn stiff as a board.” “To be perfectly honest,” Lance said, “I don’t really give a fuck about those babies.” “I know.” “We just need money for gas.” “I know.” At the next house, a man answered, and immediately Kirsten smelled the sour odor of settledness through the screen door. A television played in the cramped front room. A spider plant sat on a stereo speaker, still in its plastic pot, the soil dry and hard yet with a pale shoot thriving, growing down to the shag carpet, as if it might find a way to root in the fibres. Pans in the sink he scrubbed as needed, coffee grounds and macaroni on the floor, pennies and dimes caught in clots of dog hair. A sombre, unmoving light in rooms where the windows were never opened, the curtains always closed. “Some got to be addicted,” the man said, after Kirsten explained herself. “They never go away.” “That may be so,” Kirsten admitted. “I’ve thought the same myself.” He went to the kitchen and opened the fridge. “You want a beer?” “No thanks.” The blue air around the television was its own atmosphere, and when the man sank back in his chair it was as if he’d gone there to breathe. He looked at Kirsten’s breasts, then down at her feet, and finally at his own hands, which were clumsy and large, curling tightly around the bottle. “Where you staying?” “About a mile out of town,” she said. She handed the man a pamphlet. “I’ve had that same despair you’re talking about. When you feel nothing’s going to change enough to wipe out all the problem.” “Bunch of niggers, mostly.” “Did you look at the one there?” “Tar baby.” “That kid’s white,” Kirsten said. She had no idea if this was true. He didn’t say anything. Kirsten nodded at the television. “Who’s winning?” “Who’s playing?” the man said. He was using a coat hanger for an aerial. “The blue ones, I guess.” “But isn’t it enough? If you can save one baby from this life of hell, isn’t that O.K.?” “Doesn’t matter much,” he said. “In the scheme of things.” “It would mean everything,” Kirsten said, “if it was you.” “But,” he said, “it’s not me.” The blur of the television interested him more. “Where?” “Where what?” “Where’d you say you were staying?” “With these old people, Effie, Effie and his wife, Gen.” He dropped the pamphlet on the floor and pushed himself out of the chair. He swayed and stared dumbly into a wallet full of receipts. “Well, tonight you say hi to them for me. You tell Effie and Gen Johnny says hi.” When he looked at Kirsten, his eyes had gone neutral. “You tell them I’m sorry, and you give them this,” he said, leaning toward Kirsten. Then his lips were gone from her mouth, and he was handing her the last five from his billfold. When they returned to the farmhouse, their car was sitting in the drive and dinner was cooking. The kitchen windows were steamed, and the moist air, warm and fragrant, settled like a perfume on Kirsten’s skin. She ran hot water and lathered her hands. The ball of soap was as smooth and worn as an old bone, a mosaic assembled from remnants, small pieces thriftily saved and then softened and clumped together. Everything in the house seemed to have that same quality, softened by the touch of hands—hands that had rubbed the brass plating from the doorknobs, hands that had worn the painted handles of spoons and ladles down to bare wood. Kirsten rinsed the soap away, and Gen offered her a towel. “You don’t have any other clothes, do you?” the old woman asked. “No, Ma’am,” she said. “Let’s go pull some stuff out of the attic,” Gen said. She drew a level line from the top of her head to the top of Kirsten’s. “We’re about the same size, I figure. You won’t win any fashion awards—it’s just old funny things, some wool pants, a jacket, a couple cardigan sweaters. But you aren’t dressed for Iowa.” She pronounced it “Ioway.” “I’d appreciate that, Ma’am.” “Doing the kind of work you do, I don’t imagine you can afford the extras,” she said, as they climbed a set of steps off the upstairs hallway. “But in this country we don’t consider a coat extra.” The old woman tugged a string and a bare bulb lit the attic. In the sudden glare, the room seemed at first to house nothing but a jumble of shadows. “I’ve held on to everything,” she said. “I met a man in town today,” Kirsten said. “He said he knew you and Effie.” The old woman slit the tape on a box with her thumbnail and handed Kirsten a sweater that smelled faintly of dust and camphor. Kirsten held the woman still and kissed her on the lips. “He said to give you that.” “Johnny?” Gen said. “He won’t come out here.” Kirsten slipped into the sweater, a cardigan with black leather buttons like a baby’s withered navel, a hardened ball of Kleenex in the pocket. She had never known a world of such economy, where things were saved and a room in a house could be set aside for storage. This woman had lived to pass her things on, but now there was no one to take them. “It was a combine,” Kirsten said. “It was this time of year.” The old woman nodded. “Your little girl doesn’t know she’s dead. She’s still out there.” “How do I know you know all this?” “I saw her,” Kirsten said. “And when me and Lance come to the door last night we never knocked.” From a rack against the wall, the old woman took down a wool overcoat. “You were waiting up for her. You wait every year.” Gen stepped in front of a cheval mirror and held the coat against her body, modelling it for a moment. “It wasn’t Effie’s fault.” “He feels the guilt all the same,” the old woman said. “He had to,” Kirsten said. “Had to what?” “Live,” she said. “He had to live his life, just the same as me and you.” They set four places with the good plates and silver and flowery napkins in the dining room. There was a ham pricked with cloves and ringed around with pineapple and black olives and green beans and salad and bread. Effie fussed over his wife as if he’d never had dinner with her, passing dishes and offering extra helpings, which she refused each time, saying, “Help yourself.” Kirsten eventually caught on, seeing that this solicitude was the old man’s sly way of offering a compliment and serving himself a little more at the same time. The food was good; it all glistened, the juices from the ham, the butter running off the beans, the oil on the salad. Gen spent most of the meal up on her feet, offering, spooning, heating, filling. Effie’s conversation made a wide, wandering tour of the land. Jesse James used to hide out in this country, he said. Then he was talking about no-till planting, soil that wasn’t disked or plowed. “You got corn in just about everything,” he said. “In gasoline, sparkplugs, crayons, toothpaste, disposable diapers—” “No, really?” Lance said. “You bet,” the old man went on, “and paint, beer, whiskey. You name it.” He said one out of four hogs produced in this country came from Iowa—which he, too, pronounced “Ioway.” Hogs till Hell wouldn’t have it, he said, thundering the words. The topic of hogs led to a story he’d read about Fidel Castro roasting a pig in a hotel room in New York, and then he told about their travels, a trip to Ireland and another to Hawaii, which he pronounced “Hoy.” After dinner, there was pumpkin pie—prize-winning, Effie announced, as the pie tin took center stage on the cleared table. It was delicious, the filling warm with a buttery vanishing feel on Kirsten’s tongue. “What’s in it?” she asked. “Oh,” Gen said, “cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, allspice, vanilla—but real pumpkin’s the key.” Gen, satisfied with the satisfaction at her table, smiled at her husband, who gravely put down his fork. “When you come,” Effie said, “Momma said you mentioned our little girl.” The old man looked across the table at his wife, checking her eyes, or the turn of her mouth, for subtle signs, searching for agreement. It was as if he found what he needed in the space between them, and spoke aloud only to verify that it was there, that someone else had seen it. “Our little girl,” Gen said. “Your daughter,” Kirsten said. “I wondered if you were an old friend. Maybe from school. Most of them have grown and gone away. I used to see—it would have been so long ago but. . . .” He trailed off, his pale-blue eyes wetly sparking in the weak, splintered light of the chandelier. Lance said, “Kirsten’s been to the other side. She’s seen it.” “I would believe you,” Effie said. “Some around here don’t credit dowsers, but we always have. We never had reason not to. We always had plenty of water.” He cleared his throat. “I’d pay anything if you could tell us—anything.” “There’s the babies,” Lance said. “I’ll help with those babies of yours. I’ll donate to your cause. Where you going after this?” “We’re aiming west,” Lance said. Effie squared his fork with the edge of the table. “Well?” Kirsten was about to speak when she felt a hand slide over her knee, the fingers feeling their way until they rested warmly in her hand, holding it tight. She glanced at the old woman. “It was only that picture on your wall,” she said to Effie. The picture was the one every child drew a hundred times—the house, the leafy tree, the sun in one corner, the birds overhead, the walkway widening like a river as it flows out from the front door, the family standing on the green grass, a brother, a sister, a mother with her triangle dress, the father twice as big as everybody, the stick fingers overlapping—and that no one ever saved. “It was just that picture,” Kirsten said. “I wish I could say it was more, but it wasn’t.” Effie picked up his fork and pressed it against the crumbs of piecrust still on his plate, gathering them. He looked as though he had another question in mind. “That was the last picture,” the old woman said. “She just drawn it at school,” he said. “She put me and Gen in, her and her brother.” “Stephanie,” Kirsten said, “and Johnny.” The old man glanced at his wife. “She spelled all the names on the picture,” Kirsten said. Gen whispered yes, but it was Effie who had to speak up. “I never breathed right or walked right after,” he said. “Never farmed, neither, except for my little garden out back.” “That was the best pie I ever had,” Kirsten said. “Show your ribbons, Momma,” Effie said. “Oh, no,” Gen said, waving her hand, shooing away the approach, the temptation of something immodest. “Well, that’s right,” Effie said. “The pie’s right here, huh?” He looked around the table. “The pie’s right here.” Kirsten hovered above the field and could hear the rumble of an engine and the crushed stalks snapping, a crackling noise that spread and came from everywhere at once, like fire. The stalks flailed and broke and dust and chaff flew up, and then, ahead, she saw the little girl running down the rows, lost in the maze, unable to search out a safe direction. Suddenly, the girl sat on the ground, her stillness an instinct, looking up through the leaves, waiting for the noise to pass. Kirsten saw her there—a little girl being good, quiet, obedient—but when the sound came closer she flattened herself against the dirt, as if the moment might pass her by. When it was too late, she kicked her feet, trying to escape, and was swallowed up. The noise faded, and a scroll of dirt and stover curved over the fields like handwriting. Then it was gone, and Kirsten saw her own reflection floating in the gray haze of the vanity. “Lance,” she said. “What?” “We’re leaving,” she said. “Why, what?” Kirsten gathered the old woman’s clothes in a garbage sack and had Lance carry them to the car. She made the bed and fluffed the thin pillows. The house was quiet. She sat at the small painted vanity, taking a blue crayon from the cup, and wrote a thank-you note. She wrote to the old woman that one second of love is all the love in the world, that one moment is all of them; she wrote that she’d really liked the pumpkin pie, and meant it when she’d said it was the best she’d ever had, adding that she never expected to taste better; she thanked her for the hospitality and for fixing the car; and then she copied down the words to the song the woman she called Mother had sung: Where are you going, my little one, little one? Where are you going, my baby, my own? Turn around and you’re two, turn around and you’re four. Turn around and you’re a young girl going out of the door. Lance was gone for a long time, and Kirsten, looking over the note, considered tearing it up each time she read it. As she sat and waited, she felt a sudden warmth and reached under the elastic of her underpants. When Lance finally returned, he was covered in dry leaves and strings of tassel, as if he’d been out working in the fields. They went outside and pushed the car down the gravel drive, out to the road. It started up, beautifully quiet. “Wait here,” Kirsten said. She walked back to the yard. It was cool, and the damp night air released a rich smell of dung and soil and straw, a smell Kirsten was sure belonged only to Iowa, and only at certain hours. She pulled her T-shirt over her head. She was reaching for the clothespin that held the old woman’s bra when something made her look up. The old woman was standing at the upstairs window, her hand pressed flat against the glass. Kirsten took the bra from the line and slipped the straps over her shoulders. She fastened the clasp and leaned forward, settling her breasts in the small white cups. The women looked at each other for what seemed like an eternity, and then Kirsten pulled on her shirt and ran back to Lance. Under the moonlight, they drove down mazy roads cut through the fields. “God damn, the Lord sure hath provideth the corn around here,” Lance said. He imitated the old man compulsively. “I’ll be plenty glad to get out of this Ioway. Ioway! Christ Almighty. I’m sorry, but those people were corny. And that old guy, jawing on about Castro’s fucking pigs in the bathtub. What’d he say, they cooked a hog in that hotel room? What the hell.” Lance was taking charge, his mind hard, forging connections. He was feeling good, he was feeling certain. “And God damn I hate ham! Smells like piss!” He rolled down the window and yelled, “Goodbye, fucking Ioway!” He brushed corn silk from his sleeve and shook bits of leaves from his hair. “Here’s something for you.” He reached in his pocket and handed her a long heavy chain. “Looks to me like gold with emeralds and rubies mixed in,” he said. “That’s costume jewelry, Lance.” “We’ll get it appraised, and you’ll see. It’s real,” he said, bullying the truth, hating its disadvantages. “They won’t miss it, Kirsten. They’re old, honey. They’re gonna die and they got no heirs so don’t you worry.” He grinned widely and said, “I got something out of the deal, too.” He waited. Kirsten just stared at the cheap gaudy chain, pouring it like water from one hand to the other. Lance said, “Look in back.” When she turned around, all she saw through the rear window was a trail of dust turning red in the tail-lights. “Under the blanket,” Lance said. Kirsten reached behind her and pulled away the blanket. The rear seat was overflowing with ears of corn. Lance had turned the whole back of the car into a crib. “Ioway corn,” he said. “Makes me hungry just thinking about it.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Dressmaker’s Child	Cahal sprayed WD-40 on to the only bolt his spanner wouldn’t shift. All the others had come out easily enough but this one was rusted in, the exhaust unit trailing from it. He had tried to hammer it out, he had tried wrenching the exhaust unit this way and that in the hope that something would give, but nothing had. Half five, he’d told Heslin, and the bloody car wouldn’t be ready. The lights of the garage were always on, because shelves had been put up in front of the windows that stretched across the length of the wall at the back. Abandoned cars, kept for their parts, and cars and motorcycles waiting for spares, and jacks that could be wheeled about took up what space there was on either side of the small wooden office, which was at the back also. There were racks of tools, and workbenches with vises along the back wall, and rows of new and reconditioned tires, and drums of grease and oil. In the middle of the garage there were two pits, in one of which Cahal’s father was at the moment, putting in a clutch. There was a radio, on which advice was being given about looking after fish in an aquarium. “Will you turn that stuff off?” Cahal’s father shouted from under the car he was working on, and Cahal searched the wave bands until he found music of his father’s time. He was an only son in a family of girls, all of them older, all of them gone from the town—three to England, another in Dunnes in Galway, another married in Nebraska. The garage was what Cahal knew, having kept his father company there since childhood, given odd jobs to do as he grew up. His father had had help then, an old man who was related to the family, whose place Cahal eventually took. He tried the bolt again but the WD-40 hadn’t begun to work yet. He was a lean, almost scrawny youth, dark-haired, his long face usually unsmiling. His garage overalls, over a yellow T-shirt, were oil-stained, gone pale where their green dye had been washed out of them. He was nineteen years old. “Hullo,” a voice said. A man and a woman, strangers, stood in the wide-open doorway of the garage. “Howya,” Cahal said. “It’s the possibility, sir,” the man inquired, “you drive us to the sacred Virgin?” “Sorry?” And Cahal’s father shouted up from the pit, wanting to know who was there. “Which Virgin’s that?” Cahal asked. The two looked at one another, not attempting to answer, and then it occurred to Cahal that they were foreign people, who had not understood. A year ago a German had driven his Volkswagen into the garage, with a noise in the engine, so he’d said. “I had hopes it’d be the big end,” Cahal’s father admitted afterward, but it was only the catch of the bonnet gone a bit loose. A couple from America had had a tire put on their hired car a few weeks after that, but there’d been nothing since. “Of Pouldearg,” the woman said. “Is it how to say it?” “The statue you’re after?” They nodded uncertainly and then with more confidence, both of them at the same time. “Aren’t you driving, yourselves, though?” Cahal asked them. “We have no car,” the man said. “We are travelled from Ávila.” The woman’s black hair was silky, drawn back and tied with a red-and-blue ribbon. Her eyes were brown, her teeth very white, her skin olive. She wore the untidy clothes of a traveller: denim trousers, a woollen jacket over a striped red blouse. The man’s trousers were the same, his shirt a nondescript shade of grayish blue, a white kerchief at his neck. A few years older than himself, Cahal estimated they’d be. “Ávila?” he said. “Spain,” the man said. Again Cahal’s father called out, and Cahal said two Spanish people had come into the garage. “In the store,” the man explained. “They say you drive us to the Virgin.” “Are they broken down?” Cahal’s father shouted. He could charge them fifty euros, Pouldearg there and back, Cahal considered. He’d miss Germany versus Holland on the television, maybe the best match of the Cup, but never mind that for fifty euros. “The only thing,” he said, “I have an exhaust to put in.” He pointed at the pipe and silencer hanging out of Heslin’s old Vauxhall, and they understood. He gestured with his hands that they should stay where they were for a minute, and with his palms held flat made a pushing motion in the air, indicating that they should ignore the agitation that was coming from the pit. Both of them were amused. When Cahal tried the bolt again it began to turn. He made the thumbs-up sign when exhaust and silencer clattered to the ground. “I could take you at around seven,” he said, going close to where the Spaniards stood, keeping his voice low so that his father would not hear. He led them to the forecourt and made the arrangement while he filled the tank of a Murphy’s Stout lorry. When Cahal’s father had driven a mile out on the Bantry Road, he turned at the entrance to the stud farm and drove back to the garage, satisfied that the clutch he’d put in for Father Shea was correctly adjusted. He left the car in the forecourt, ready for Father Shea to collect, and hung the keys up in the office. Heslin from the courthouse was writing a check for the exhaust Cahal had fitted. Cahal was getting out of his overalls, and when Heslin had gone he said the people who had come wanted him to drive them to Pouldearg. They were Spanish people, Cahal said again, in case his father hadn’t heard when he’d supplied that information before. “What they want with Pouldearg?” “Nothing, only the statue.” “There’s no one goes to the statue these times.” “It’s where they’re headed.” “Did you tell them, though, how the thing was?” “I did, of course.” “Why they’d be going out there?” “There’s people takes photographs of it.” Thirteen years ago, the then bishop and two parish priests had put an end to the cult of the wayside statue at Pouldearg. None of those three men, and no priest or nun who had ever visited the crossroads at Pouldearg, had sensed anything special about the statue; none had witnessed the tears that were said to slip out of the downcast eyes when pardon for sins was beseeched by penitents. The statue became the subject of attention in pulpits and in religious publications, the claims made for it fulminated against as a foolishness. And then a curate of that time demonstrated that what had been noticed by two or three local people who regularly passed by the statue—a certain dampness beneath the eyes—was no more than raindrops trapped in two overdefined hollows. There the matter ended. Those who had so certainly believed in what they had never actually seen, those who had not noticed the drenched leaves of overhanging boughs high above the statue, felt as foolish as their spiritual masters had predicted they one day would. Almost overnight the Weeping Virgin of Pouldearg became again the painted image it had always been. Our Lady of the Wayside, it had been called for a while. “I never heard people were taking photographs of it.” Cahal’s father shook his head as if he doubted his son, which he often did and usually with reason. “A fellow was writing a book a while back. Going around all Ireland, tracking down the weeping statues.” “It was no more than the rain at Pouldearg.” “He’d have put that in the book. That man would have put the whole thing down, how you’d find the statues all over the place and some of them would be O.K. and some of them wouldn’t.” “And you set the Spaniards right about Pouldearg?” “I did, of course.” “Drain the juice out of young Leahy’s bike and we’ll weld his leak for him.” The suspicions of Cahal’s father were justified: the truth had no more than slightly played a part in what Cahal had told the Spanish couple about Pouldearg. With fifty euros at the back of his mind, he would have considered it a failure of his intelligence had he allowed himself to reveal that the miracle once claimed for the statue at Pouldearg was without foundation. They had heard the statue called Our Lady of Tears as well as Our Lady of the Wayside and the Sacred Virgin of Pouldearg by a man in a Dublin public house with whom they had drifted into conversation. They’d had to repeat this a couple of times before Cahal grasped what they were saying, but he thought he got it right in the end. It wouldn’t be hard to stretch the journey by four or five miles, and if they were misled by the names they’d heard the statue given in Dublin it was no concern of his. At five past seven, when he’d had his tea and had had a look at the television, he drove into the yard of Macey’s Hotel. He waited there as he’d said he would. They appeared almost at once. They sat close together in the back. Before he started the engine again Cahal told them what the cost would be and they said that was all right. He drove through the town, gone quiet as it invariably did at this time. Some of the shops were still open and would remain so for a few more hours—the newsagents’ and tobacconists’, the sweetshops and small groceries, Quinlan’s supermarket, all the public houses—but there was a lull on the streets. “Are you on holiday?” Cahal asked. He couldn’t make much of their reply. Both of them spoke, correcting one another. After a lot of repetition they seemed to be telling him that they were getting married. “Well, that’s grand,” he said. He turned out onto the Loye Road. Spanish was spoken in the back of the car. The radio wasn’t working or he’d have put it on for company. The car was a black Ford Cortina with a hundred and eighty thousand miles on the clock; his father had taken it in part exchange. They’d use it until the tax sticker expired and then put it aside for spares. Cahal thought of telling the passengers that in case they’d think he hadn’t much to say for himself, but he knew it would be too difficult. The Christian Brothers had had him labelled as not having much to say for himself, and it had stuck in his memory, worrying him sometimes in case it caused people to believe he was slow. Whenever he could, Cahal tried to give the lie to that by making a comment. “Are you here long?” he inquired, and the girl said they’d been two days in Dublin. He said he’d been in Dublin himself a few times. He said it was mountainy from now on, until they reached Pouldearg. The scenery was beautiful, the girl said. He took the fork at the two dead trees, although going straight would have got them there, too, longer still but potholes all over the place. It was a good car for the hills, the man said, and Cahal said it was a Ford, pleased that he’d understood. You’d get used to it, he considered, with a bit more practicing you’d pick up the trick of understanding them. “How’d you say it in Spanish?” he called back over his shoulder. “A statue?” “Estatua,” they both said, together. “Estatua,” they said. “Estatua,” Cahal repeated, changing gears for the hill at Loye. The girl clapped her hands, and he could see her smiling in the rearview mirror. God, a woman like that, he thought. Give me a woman like that, he said to himself, and he imagined he was in the car alone with her, that the man wasn’t there, that he hadn’t come to Ireland with her, that he didn’t exist. “Do you hear about St. Teresa of Ávila? Do you hear about her in Ireland?” Her lips opened and closed in the rearview mirror, her teeth flashing, the tip of her tongue there for a moment. What she’d asked him was as clear as anyone would say it. “We do, of course,” he said, confusing St. Teresa of Ávila with the St. Teresa who’d been famous for her humility and her attention to little things. “Grand,” Cahal said of her also. “Grand altogether.” To his disappointment, Spanish was spoken again. He was going with Minnie Fennelly, but, no doubt about it, this woman had the better of her. The two faces appeared side by side in his mind’s eye and there wasn’t a competition. He drove past the cottages beyond the bridge, the road twisting and turning all over the place after that. It said earlier on the radio there’d be showers but there wasn’t a trace of one, the October evening without a breeze, dusk beginning. “Not more than a mile,” he said, not turning his head, but the Spanish was still going on. If they were planning to take photographs they mightn’t be lucky by the time they got there. With the trees, Pouldearg was a dark place at the best of times. He wondered if the Germans had scored yet. He’d have put money on the Germans if he’d had any to spare. Before they reached their destination, Cahal drew the car onto the verge where it was wide and looked dry. He could tell from the steering that there was trouble and found it in the left front wheel, the tire leaking at the valve. Five or six pounds it would have lost, he estimated. “It won’t take me a minute,” he reassured his passengers, rummaging behind where they sat, among old newspapers and tools and empty paint tins, for the pump. He thought for a moment it mightn’t be there and wondered what he’d do if the spare tire was flat, which sometimes it was if a car was a trade-in. But the pump was there and he gave the partially deflated tire a couple of extra pounds to keep it going. He’d see how things were when they reached Pouldearg crossroads. When they did, there wasn’t enough light for a photograph, but the man and woman went up close to the Wayside Virgin, which was more lopsided than Cahal remembered from the last time he’d driven by it, hardly longer than a year ago. The tire had lost the extra pressure he’d pumped in, and while they were occupied he began to change the wheel, having discovered that the spare tire wasn’t flat. All the time he could hear them talking in Spanish, although their voices weren’t raised. When they returned to the car it was still jacked up and they had to wait for a while, standing on the road beside him, but they didn’t appear to mind. He’d still catch most of the second half, Cahal said to himself when eventually he turned the car around and began the journey back. You never knew how you were placed as regards how long you’d be, how long you’d have to wait for people while they poked about. “Was she all right for you?” he asked them, turning on the headlights so that the potholes would show up. They answered in Spanish, as if they had forgotten that it wouldn’t be any good. She’d fallen over a bit more, he said, but they didn’t understand. They brought up the man they’d met in the public house in Dublin. They kept repeating something, a gabble of English words that still appeared to be about getting married. In the end, it seemed to Cahal that this man had told them people received a marriage blessing when they came to Pouldearg as penitents. “Did you buy him drinks?” he asked, but that wasn’t understood, either. They didn’t meet another car, nor even a bicycle, until they were farther down. He’d been lucky over the tire: they could easily have said they wouldn’t pay if he’d had them stranded all night in the hills. They weren’t talking anymore; when he looked in the mirror they were kissing, no more than shadows in the gloom, arms around one another. It was then, just after they’d passed the dead trees, that the child ran out. She came out of the blue cottage and ran at the car. He’d heard of it before, the child on this road who ran out at cars. It had never happened to himself, he’d never even seen a child there any time he’d passed, but often it was mentioned. He felt the thud no more than a second after the headlights picked out the white dress by the wall and then the sudden movement of the child running out. Cahal didn’t stop. In his mirror the road had gone dark. He saw something white lying there but said to himself he had imagined it. In the back of the Cortina the embrace continued. Sweat had broken out on the palms of Cahal’s hands, on his back and his forehead. She’d thrown herself at the side of the car and his own door was what she’d made contact with. Her mother was the unmarried woman of that cottage, many the time he’d heard that said in the garage. Fitzie Gill had shown him damage to his wing and said the child must have had a stone in her hand. But usually there wasn’t any damage, and no one had ever mentioned damage to the child herself. Bungalows announced the town, all of them lit up now. The Spanish began again, and he was asked if he could tell them what time the bus went to Galway. There was confusion because he thought they meant tonight, but then he understood it was the morning. He told them, and when they paid him in Macey’s yard the man handed him a pencil and a notebook. He didn’t know what that was for, but they showed him, making gestures, and he wrote down the time of the bus. They shook hands with him before they went into the hotel. In the very early morning, just after half past one, Cahal woke up and couldn’t sleep again. He tried to recall what he’d seen of the football, the moves there’d been, the saves, the yellow card shown twice. But nothing seemed quite right, as if the television pictures and snatches of the commentary had come from a dream, which he knew they hadn’t. He had examined the side of the car in the garage and there’d been nothing. He had switched out the lights of the garage and locked up. He’d watched the football in Shannon’s and hadn’t seen the end because he lost interest when nothing much was happening. He should have stopped; he didn’t know why he hadn’t. He couldn’t remember braking. He didn’t know if he’d tried to, he didn’t know if there hadn’t been time. The Ford Cortina had been seen setting out on the Loye Road and then returning. His father knew the way he’d gone, past the unmarried woman’s cottage. The Spaniards would have said in the hotel they’d seen the Virgin. They’d have said in the hotel they were going on to Galway. They could be found in Galway for questioning. In the dark Cahal tried to work it out. They would have heard the bump. They wouldn’t have known what it was, but they’d have heard it while they were kissing. They would remember how much longer it was before they got out of the car in Macey’s yard. It hadn’t been a white dress, Cahal realized suddenly; it trailed on the ground, too long for a dress, more like a nightdress. He’d seen the woman who lived there a few times when she came in to the shops, a dressmaker they said she was, small and wiry with dark inquisitive eyes and a twist in her features that made them less appealing than they might have been. When her child had been born to her,the father had not been known—not even to herself, so it was said, though possibly without justification. People said she didn’t speak about the birth of her child. As Cahal lay in the darkness, he resisted the compulsion to get up in order to go back and see for himself; to walk out to the blue cottage, since to drive would be foolish; to look on the road for whatever might be there, he didn’t know what. Often he and Minnie Fennelly got up in the middle of the night in order to meet in the back shed at her house. They lay on a stack of netting there, whispering and petting one another, the way they couldn’t anywhere in the daytime. The best they could manage in the daytime was half an hour in the Ford Cortina out in the country somewhere. They could spend half the night in the shed. He calculated how long it would take him to walk out to where the incident had occurred. He wanted to; he wanted to get there and see nothing on the road and to close his eyes in relief. Sometimes dawn had come by the time he parted from Minnie Fennelly, and he imagined that, too, the light beginning as he walked in from the country feeling all right again. But more likely he wouldn’t be. “One day that kid’ll be killed,” he heard Fitzie Gill saying, and someone else said the woman wasn’t up to looking after the kid. The child was left alone in the house, people said, even for a night while the woman drank by herself in Leahy’s, looking around for a man to keep her company. That night, Cahal didn’t get back to sleep. And all the next day he waited for someone to walk into the garage and say what had been found. But no one did, and no one did the next day, either, or the day after that. The Spaniards would have gone on from Galway by now, the memories of people who had maybe noticed the Ford Cortina would be getting shaky. And Cahal counted the drivers who he knew for a fact had experienced similar incidents with the child and said to himself that maybe, after all, he’d been fortunate. Even so, it would be a long time before he drove past that cottage again, if ever he did. Then something happened that changed all that. Sitting with Minnie Fennelly in the Cyber Café one evening, Minnie Fennelly said, “Don’t look, only someone’s staring at you.” “Who is it?” “D’you know that dressmaker woman?” They’d ordered chips and they came just then. Cahal didn’t say anything, but knew that sooner or later he wasn’t going to be able to prevent himself from looking around. He wanted to ask if the woman had her child with her, but in the town he had only ever seen her on her own and he knew that the child wouldn’t be there. If she was, it would be a chance in a thousand, he thought, the apprehension that had haunted him on the night of the incident flooding his consciousness, stifling everything else. “God, that one gives me the creeps!” Minnie Fennelly muttered, splashing vinegar onto her chips. Cahal looked round them. He caught a glimpse of the dressmaker, alone, before he quickly looked back. He could still feel her eyes on his back. She would have been in Leahy’s; the way she was sitting suggested drunkenness. When they’d finished their chips and the coffee they’d been brought while they were waiting, he asked if she was still there. “She is, all right. D’you know her? Does she come into the garage?” “Ah no, she hasn’t a car. She doesn’t come in.” “I’d best be getting back, Cahal.” He didn’t want to go yet, while the woman was there. But if they waited they could be here for hours. He didn’t want to pass near her, but as soon as he’d paid and stood up he saw they’d have to. When they did she spoke to Minnie Fennelly, not him. “Will I make your wedding dress for you?” the dressmaker offered. “Would you think of me at all when it’ll be time you’d want it?” And Minnie Fennelly laughed and said no way they were ready for wedding dresses yet. “Cahal knows where he’ll find me,” the dressmaker said. “Amn’t I right, Cahal?” “I thought you didn’t know her,” Minnie Fennelly said when they were outside. Three days after that, Mr. Durcan left his prewar Riley in because the hand brake was slipping. He’d come back for it at four, he arranged, and said before he left, “Did you hear that about the dressmaker’s child?” He wasn’t the kind to get things wrong. Fussy, with a thin black mustache, his Riley Sports the pride of his bachelor life, he was as tidy in what he said as he was in how he dressed. “Gone missing,” he said now. “The Gardai are in on it.’’ It was Cahal’s father who was being told this. Cahal, with the cooling system from Gibney’s bread van in pieces on a workbench, had just found where the tube had perished. “She’s backward, the child,” his father said. “She is.” “You hear tales.” “She’s gone off for herself, anyway. They have a block on a couple of roads, asking was she seen.” The unease that hadn’t left him since the dressmaker had been in the Cyber Café began to nag again when Cahal heard that. He wondered what questions the Gardai were asking; he wondered when it was that the child had taken herself off; although he tried, he couldn’t piece anything together. “Isn’t she a backward woman herself, though?” his father remarked when Mr. Durcan had gone. “Sure, did she ever lift a finger to tend that child?” Cahal didn’t say anything. He tried to think about marrying Minnie Fennelly, although still nothing was fixed, not even an agreement between themselves. Her plump, honest features became vivid for a moment in his consciousness, the same plumpness in her arms and her hands. He found it attractive, he always had, since first he’d noticed her when she was still going to the nuns. He shouldn’t have had thoughts about the Spanish girl, he shouldn’t have let himself. He should have told them the statue was nothing, that the man they’d met had been pulling a fast one for the sake of the drinks they’d buy him. “Your mother had that one run up curtains for the back room,” his father said. “Would you remember that, boy?” Cahal shook his head. “Ah, you wouldn’t have been five at the time, maybe younger yet. She was just after setting up with the dressmaking, her father still there in the cottage with her. The priests said give her work on account she was a charity. Bedad, they wouldn’t say it now!” Cahal turned the radio on and turned the volume up. Madonna was singing, and he imagined her in the getup she’d fancied for herself a few years ago, suspenders and items of underclothes. He’d thought she was great. “I’m taking the Toyota out,” his father said, and the bell from the forecourt rang, someone waiting there for petrol. It didn’t concern him, Cahal told himself as he went to answer it. What had occurred on the evening of Germany and Holland was a different thing altogether from the news Mr. Durcan had brought, no way could it be related. “Howya,” he greeted the school-bus driver at the pumps. The dressmaker’s child was found where she’d lain for several days, at the bottom of a fissure, half covered with shale, in the exhausted quarry half a mile from where she’d lived. Years ago the last of the stone had been carted away and a barbed-wire fence put up, with two warning notices about danger. She would have crawled in under the bottom strand of wire, the Gardai said, and a chain-link fence replaced the barbed wire within a day. In the town the dressmaker was condemned, blamed behind her back for the tragedy that had occurred. That her own father, who had raised her on his own since her mother’s early death, had himself been the father of the child was an ugly calumny, not voiced before, but seeming now to have a natural place in the paltry existence of a child who had lived and died wretchedly. “How are you, Cahal?” Cahal heard the voice of the dressmaker behind him when, early one November morning, he made his way to the shed where he and Minnie Fennelly indulged their affection for one another. It was not yet one o’clock, the town lights long ago extinguished except for a few on Main Street. “Would you come home with me, Cahal? Would we walk out to where I am?” All this was spoken to his back while Cahal walked on. He knew who was there. He knew who it was, he didn’t have to look. “Leave me alone,” he said. “Many’s the night I rest myself on the river seat and many’s the night I see you. You’d always be in a hurry, Cahal.” “I’m in a hurry now.” “One o’clock in the morning! Arrah, go on with you, Cahal!” “I don’t know you. I don’t want to be talking to you.” “She was gone for five days before I went to the Guards. It wouldn’t be the first time she was gone off. A minute wouldn’t go by without she was out on the road.” Cahal didn’t say anything. Even though he still didn’t turn round he could smell the drink on her, stale and acrid. “I didn’t go to them any quicker for fear they’d track down the way it was when the lead would be fresh for them. D’you understand me, Cahal?” Cahal stopped. He turned round and she almost walked into him. He told her to go away. “The road was the thing with her. First thing of a morning she’d be running at the cars without a pick of food inside her. The next thing is she’d be off up the road to the statue. She’d kneel to the statue the whole day until she was found by some old fellow who’d bring her back to me. Some old fellow’d have her by the hand and they’d walk in the door. Oh, many’s the time, Cahal. Wasn’t it the first place the Guards looked when I said that to the sergeant? Any woman’d do her best for her own, Cahal.” “Will you leave me alone!” “Gone seven it was, maybe twenty past. I had the door open to go in to Leahy’s and I seen the black car going by and yourself inside it. You always notice a car in the evening time, only the next thing was I was late back from Leahy’s and she was gone. D’you understand me, Cahal?” “It’s nothing to do with me.” “He’d have gone back the same way he went out, I said to myself, but I didn’t mention it to the Guards, Cahal. Was she in the way of wandering in her nightdress? was what they asked me and I told them she’d be out the door before you’d see her. Will we go home, Cahal?” “I’m not going anywhere with you.” “There’d never be a word of blame on yourself, Cahal.” “There’s nothing to blame me for. I had people in the car that evening.” “I swear before God, what’s happened is done with. Come back with me now, Cahal.” “Nothing happened, nothing’s done with. There was Spanish people in the car the entire time. I drove them out to Pouldearg and back again to Macey’s Hotel.” “Minnie Fennelly’s no use to you, Cahal.” He had never seen the dressmaker up close before. She was younger than he’d thought, but still looked what she was—a fair bit older than himself, maybe twelve or thirteen years. The twist in her face wasn’t ugly, but it spoilt what might have been beauty of a kind, and he remembered the flawless beauty of the Spanish girl and the silkiness of her hair. The dressmaker’s hair was black, too, but wild and matted, limply straggling, falling to her shoulders. The eyes that had stared so intensely at him in the Cyber Café were bleary. Her full lips were drawn back in a smile, one of her teeth slightly chipped. Cahal walked away and she did not follow him. That was the beginning; there was no end. In the town, though never again at night, she was always there: Cahal knew that was an illusion, that she wasn’t always there but seemed so because her presence on each occasion meant so much. She tidied herself up; she wore dark clothes, which people said were in mourning for her child; and people said she had ceased to frequent Leahy’s public house. She was seen painting the front of her cottage, the same blue shade, and tending its bedraggled front garden. She walked from the shops of the town, and never now stood, hand raised, in search of a lift. Continuing his familiar daily routine of repairs and servicing and answering the petrol bell, Cahal found himself unable to dismiss the connection between them that the dressmaker had made him aware of when she’d walked behind him in the night, and knew that the roots it came from spread and gathered strength and were nurtured, in himself, by fear. Cahal was afraid without knowing what he was afraid of, and when he tried to work this out he was bewildered. He began to go to Mass and to confession more often than he ever had before. It was noticed by his father that he had even less to say these days to the customers at the pumps or when they left their cars in. His mother wondered about his being anemic and put him on iron pills. Returning for a couple of days at a weekend, his sister who was still in Ireland said the trouble must surely be Fennelly. During all this time—passing in other ways quite normally—the child was lifted again and again from the cleft in the rocks, still in her nightdress as Cahal had seen her, laid out and wrapped as the dead are wrapped. If he hadn’t had to change the wheel he would have passed the cottage at a different time and the chances were she wouldn’t have been ready to run out, wouldn’t just then have felt inclined to. If he’d explained to the Spaniards about the Virgin’s tears being no more than rain he wouldn’t have been on the road at all. The dressmaker did not speak to him again or seek to, but he knew that the fresh blue paint, and the mourning clothes that were not, with time, abandoned, and the flowers that came to fill the small front garden were all for him. When a little more than a year had passed since the evening he’d driven the Spanish couple out to Pouldearg, he attended Minnie Fennelly’s wedding to Des Downey, a vet from Athenry. The dressmaker had not said it, but it was what there had been between them in the darkened streets: that he had gone back, walking out as he had wanted to that night when he’d lain awake, that her child had been there where she had fallen on the road, that he had carried her to the quarry. And Cahal knew it was the dressmaker, not he, who had done that. He visited the Virgin of the Wayside, always expecting that she might be there. He knelt, and asked for nothing. He spoke only in his thoughts, offering reparation and promising to accept whatever might be visited upon him for associating himself with the mockery of the man the Spaniards had met by chance in Dublin, for mocking the lopsided image on the road, taking fifty euros for a lie. He had looked at them kissing. He had thought about Madonna with her clothes off, not minding that she called herself that. Once when he was at Pouldearg Cahal noticed the glisten of what had once been taken for tears on the Virgin’s cheek. He touched the hollow where this moisture had accumulated and raised his dampened finger to his lips. It did not taste of salt, but that made no difference. Driving back, when he went by the dressmaker’s blue cottage she was there in the front garden, weeding her flower beds. Even though she didn’t look up, he wanted to go to her and knew that one day he would. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Hanwell in Hell	I am looking to enter into correspondence with anyone who remembers my father, Mr. —— Hanwell, who was living in the central Bristol area between 1970 and 1973. Any details at all will be gratefully received by daughter trying to piece together the jigsaw. Please write back to P.O. Box 187. I spent just one night with your father, in Bristol, thirty-four years ago. He was down on his luck at the time, as was I. We had both suffered dramatic reversals of fortune and recognized immediately that we had failure in common—a rare example of masculine intuition. Each sniffed out the other’s catastrophe. For my part, I had lost my livelihood and my house; I spent the spring of that year bewildered and outraged, almost unable to comprehend that I now lived in a gruesome basement flat in which lichen seemed to grow upon every damp surface. A crooked business partner who took cash under the counter, compounded by my own careless accounting, had separated me from my business (a small chain of Bristol off-licenses) so completely that I was reduced to a salesman’s existence. I hawked the new American fridge-freezers from a catalogue, door-to-door. It was a dismal job and one that required me to spend a humiliating amount of time—or so I thought then—with women. In the off-licenses, all my staff had been men, and I always appreciated the fact; emotionally men are so much simpler. My new job made me feel as if I were being returned to the domestic scenes of my childhood. I seemed always to be in kitchens having cups of tea pressed upon me, repelling the timid advances of motherly women. Hanwell’s situation was of course somewhat reversed: he valued the domestic and lamented its loss; with it went all the things he cared for—women, the home, family. You ask in your letter if I know why you and your sisters were left in London—I don’t know, but it must have been against his will. No one would choose the life that Hanwell had. When I met him, he was washing dishes in Barry Franks’s first restaurant, halfway up the hill on Park Street. It is easy to forget now that Barry Franks was not born on the BBC holding a glass of red in one hand and his own cookery book in the other. That came later, at a time in England when people seemed able to lasso the moon quite as easily as Hanwell and I, ten years earlier, had managed to plummet beneath acceptability. In 1970, Barry Franks was only the owner of a mediocre Continental bistro, eponymously named. The cassoulet was gray, the veal chewy. You didn’t go to Franks for the food. It was that rare thing: a place with atmosphere. Franks was a legendary drunk even then, and he brought the freewheeling uncertainty of that condition to every corner of his place. Although its pretense of sophistication seems ridiculous now—the Chianti bottles hugged by raffia, the red-and-white checked tablecloths—its clientele never were; the mix of the great, the good, and the not-so-good was exhilarating. Franks was the most popular place in the city after nine in the evening, and it was natural to assume, as I did, that the owner of a place like this need only flip the “open” sign and watch the money roll in, but it was not so. Franks was steadily drinking away the profits. He was in such severe debt with the local heavies that he had been compelled to give up the entire back room to them and their pleasures. You could never get a table in that room; you could only sit at the curious walnut church pews that lined two walls and look on at the scene—table after table of wardrobe-shouldered goons with girls on their knees. I never saw them pay a penny for anything. Barry Franks once admitted to me that the unpaid tab came to six thousand pounds, an astronomical sum at the time. I could have bought a good flat in town for that money. Supposedly the goons were the scions of two local Italian families in the ice-cream business, but whatever Italian blood they possessed had been thoroughly diluted in the Avon. West Country people are as sallow as any European, and these ones looked and sounded no different from the rest of us. Their suits were tighter, that was all. And they were sentimental about beauty—sometimes it seemed that all their criminal machinations were merely the quickest route at their disposal to those high roads that lead to beautiful food and beautiful music and beautiful women. It was their idea to turn Franks into a kind of jazz bar, and to this end a five-piece band of white Bristolians meticulously and earnestly imitated Louis Armstrong’s Hot Five on a little makeshift stage in the back room. I liked the band, especially their precise fingers, neither inspired nor fussy but always accurate. When you feel lost in the world, there is some joy to be gleaned from exact imitations of familiar things. The night I met Hanwell, I came in very late with a girl I was seeing at the time. Her name is lost to me, but the outline of her chest is not—huge, carefully wrapped and cantilevered, like a present on a shelf which she had not yet decided to give away. She was thirty years my junior and also a diluted Italian, although she was still taking her Catholicism neat. I had spent the better part of five hours that evening—in my flat, in my car, in the cinema, and in a park—persistently trying to get my hand to go where she would not have it go. By the time we reached Franks, we were both exhausted and bad-tempered and the maître d’s familiar complacent explanation that the back room was “fully occupied” suddenly enraged me. I kicked up the kind of fuss that I, having no power, had no right to kick up, while the fellow nodded solicitously, all the time continuing to discreetly direct his waiters to this table and that. “But it is occupied,” he repeated in that odious way, as if the back room were a bathroom; he was waiting for me to finish making a fool of myself. I remember the girl laid her hand on my biceps as if in expectation of one of those ludicrous displays of machismo so common in the kind of Hollywood schlock we had just seen at the Odeon. But she was out with the wrong type of man for that. We were led meekly to the church pews to sit alongside other couples with drinks on their knees, but at the last minute a fat man and his friend rose to leave a table just behind me—I pushed the girl quickly into the vacated seat and took the one beside her. The maître d’ shrugged as if to say the consequences would not be his responsibility. I ordered two osso bucos, although it was already eleven and neither of us was remotely hungry. I was perversely determined to get the maximum of whatever enjoyment was available out of the best seats at Franks. How good could it possibly feel to sit here? The band was loud, and the two of us turned our chairs to face the stage—a welcome relief from looking at each other. The trumpeter stood up to do his solo, and then the clarinet player did the same; the bassist leaned forward for his minute in the sun and jauntily spun his massive instrument; the pianist lifted lightly from his seat when his turn came; the drummer, not able to change his position much, liked to bend his head low and lean into his drums, raising his elbows high at the moment the rest of the band fell silent. The solos went round three or four times before I remembered our food and noticed the angry mutterings from other tables. It was not uncommon for meals to turn up late at Franks, but this was a complete meltdown; the whole room was waiting to be served. Suddenly, a sandy-haired, balding man with a pensioner’s forlorn pink bulb on the end of his nose plonked down two plates in front of us. On both plates three French crêpes, stuffed with a creamy prawn-and-mushroom mixture, sat in a pretty triangle formation. The man was dressed not like a waiter or a chef but like a dishwasher, his dirty sleeves turned up. Sweat sprung from every pink pore in his innocent face. He smiled at us hopefully. Before we had a chance to object, he had moved on to the next table, passing out more of these crêpes that nobody had ordered. For a minute the noise of consternation reached a pitch and threatened to topple over into revolution—but most of the clientele, like me, were too drunk and too weary, and then the first mouthful was sampled, and it was extremely good; we quieted down. The crêpes were not fussy like Barry Franks’s food, and they had no pinchbeck pretensions—if your Parisian grandmother had to rustle something up at the last minute, she might cook those crêpes. Since that evening, I have passed many nights in restaurants far better than Franks, but I can’t think of a meal I’ve enjoyed more. Just after midnight, the man passed by our table again, and I stopped him. “Malfunction in the kitchen?” He looked at me warily and said nothing. I wondered then whether his innocence went all the way down; his face was so devoid of guile your first instinct was to think him a simpleton of some kind. “What’s your name?” “Hanwell, sir.” “I’m Clive, Clive Black. I’d like to shake the hand of the chef.” He looked at my hand but did not touch it. It was strange to have him call me sir—Franks wasn’t restaurant enough for such civilities. And looking at him more closely I realized Hanwell was too bald too early; he was still in his very early forties, and I was only ten years older. “Did you make these?” I tried again. “They were delicious,” the girl said, extravagantly. Maybe she even licked one of her stubby fingers. Hanwell bit his lip. He seemed to be preparing to lie but then thought better of it. “Well, yes. Were they all right?” “They were more than all right. Best food I’ve ever had in here.” “I’m sure that’s not true, sir.” “It’s completely true. What’s wrong with Franks, then? Tight again, is he?” “He’s feeling a bit under the weather. High temperature,” Hanwell said, loyally, looking away. I smiled. “It’s amazing how many high temperatures Franks gets. He’s like a five-year-old child.” I took out a cigarillo—the one luxury I refused to give up—and offered him one. He declined. “He’s very lucky to have you to cover for him last minute.” “I’m glad you enjoyed the food, sir,” said Hanwell tersely, and turned to go. But I wouldn’t let him. There was something so compelling to me about him; I had the sense that he came from better things than this but that his fall had not debilitated him or made him as bitter as mine had made me. “Where did you learn to cook like that?” Hanwell was looking about him fearfully for whoever it was who was going to give him his next instruction. I had already guessed that he had the lowest job in the place, and a quick glance at the floor confirmed this. The toes of both his shoes were soaking wet. “What, sir?” “Don’t call me sir. I’ve told you, it’s Clive. Cooking—where did you learn?” “Well, you pick up a bit here, a bit there, don’t you,” he said, reddening. “And I was in France in ’44—I suppose that helped a bit.” “Were you? So was I. You must have been barely out of short trousers.” We exchanged ranks, regiments, places, and dates. He was fluent but not overly forthcoming. He had been a private, I a lieutenant. I asked him to sit down, but again he refused. “Come on, now, one drink—won’t kill you. I can square it with Franks, if he’s still conscious. He owes me a favor. By the bye, do you know what those crêpes reminded me of? The French House—in London, in Soho. They have a starter just like that.” For the first time, Hanwell smiled at me, a coy operation that used only half of his mouth. “Yes, I’ve eaten them there—I used to work in Soho. Dean Street.” “But what in God’s name are you doing in this hellhole?” Hanwell’s face shut up shop for the day. His bulb nose ceased to shine, his eyelids sunk low. “I should be getting back to work.” “Look, sit down, sit down, ten minutes—honestly, we’d like you to.” My girl smiled falsely, excused herself, and went to the bathroom. Hanwell sat. We talked of France a little, especially of Paris (I remember very clearly a funny phrase he used: “It was Paris that gave me a polish”), and discovered we were both East Anglians, he from dreary Ipswich, I from dreary Norwich—quieter, altogether less dramatic surroundings than we found ourselves in now. I realized we had both spent a training period in bleak Felixstowe before leaving for Normandy, though we had landed at the beach at different times. I am not averse to war stories and tried to push him for a little more, but Hanwell wouldn’t have it. “Different life,” he said dully, and finally accepted a cigarillo from me. In all my probing, I could not get from him what I wanted: a clear sense of his class. He could have been a butcher’s son or a schoolteacher’s son or even a civil servant’s son—upon every topic he knew just enough to get by, veering away whenever he was in the slightest trouble. He was the kind of man who knew two things about every book you could mention, though he might never have held the book itself in his hands. Several times, one waiter or another came over to retrieve him, but I waved them off. No one could produce Franks, the real authority in the place, and there was only half an hour till closing. After a while, Hanwell relaxed and told a filthy story about a German brothel, all the time wearing that half smile, and ingratiating himself with my girl by answering her un-Catholic questions concerning what German whores wore and what their bedrooms looked liked and whether or not they reclined in chaise longues, an item of furniture she pronounced in as strange a manner as could be imagined. That Hanwell was more of a success with the girl than I was irritated me, but for some reason I took it out on her, not him. I began to tailor the conversation strictly to “men’s business”—cars and the Bristol dog tracks and other subjects I had no real interest in. The girl fell into a deep sulk and finally left without me. “She’s a beauty,” Hanwell said as we watched her go. “It makes me feel better, knowing there are women as beautiful as that in the world.” “Really. It makes me feel worse.” “It’s like a signal . . . ” Hanwell began, and said no more. “What do you mean, a signal?” “It’s only a notion I have . . . stupid notion.” “No, go on—I didn’t understand you.” “A signal that the world is good. Beautiful women help you know that.” I laughed out loud at this. “Even if you can’t bloody have them?” “Especially then.” The band came to a clattering stop after playing something terribly fast in which the trumpet squealed like a train braking. Hanwell was pushing the wet butt of his cigarillo round and round a small china plate. “You’re an odd one, Hanwell,” I said into the silence. “I’m just an optimist,” said Hanwell. Just then, Hanwell was called away once and for all. Franks had finally roused himself in the kitchen and sent for him. I remember that it was only when he left the table that I realized Hanwell’s glass of Chianti had barely been touched; the girl didn’t drink; I must have drunk the whole bottle that was now sitting empty before me. I ordered a tumbler of water, drained it, and began discreetly to refill it with whiskey from my own flask. I dreaded going back to that awful flat. I sat and watched the night fold itself up around me, pack itself away. The double bass was zipped into its big black pajamas. The clarinet player delicately removed his reed and put it to bed in a swaddle of cotton. At some point I must have put my head on the table. “Mr. Black? Mr. Black?” Hanwell’s hands were on my shoulders, gently shaking me. “Mr. Black, we’re closing now.” “Hanwell?” “Yes, Mr. Black—Hanwell. You’ll have to be going now, sir.” “It’s Clive—how many times? What time is it, anyway?” “It’s one in the morning, Clive,” said Hanwell solemnly, and I saw that his first instinct had been right—“sir” sounded so much more natural in his mouth. Hanwell walked me to the door. We both took our coats and hats from the hooks in the hallway. “You leaving, too?” “I’ve got a home to go to,” he said, a little defensively. “Just like anyone.” “What about a nightcap, Hanwell? Finish the night off properly. You had a great success tonight—we should celebrate. But maybe your wife wouldn’t like it.” “My wife’s in London.” “And mine’s in Timbuktu. How about it, then?” We agreed to go to his flat. I had some whiskey left and shared it with him, and for at least a minute the plan to continue the night seemed by far the best plan any man could have devised. We walked silently and contentedly down Park Street, but when we reached the bottom the rain began to come down sideways, and three minutes later I was soaked to the skin. We took a series of rapid rights and lefts; I remember registering the point at which I could no longer be sure that it would be quicker and less painful to go back to my flat than to go to Hanwell’s. “Have we much farther to go?” I asked him, blinking away water, trying to keep up with his swift pace. “Just a bit,” he said, and in the darkness I heard the squeak of a hinge. I followed him through the iron gate he had opened. We were in a small park, really just a green square, with beautiful Georgian properties looming white and expensive overhead. “This is Cabot Square, very nice,” said Hanwell. “It’s a shortcut for me through the square. Imagine living with your family in one of these huge buggers.” I thought it very strange, that addition—“with your family.” I hadn’t the heart or the will to tell him that a house very like one of these “huge buggers” had recently been mine; that I had had the run of the place all for myself; that a life like that was possible. “Barry Franks lives here,” said Hanwell chirpily—he was as indefatigable as a tour guide—“with his wife and their four children.” “The way he’s going, he’ll be lucky to keep it,” I said, too angrily. I wanted people to have the kind of bad luck I now knew existed. I didn’t want anyone to think that what had happened to me could not happen to them. I wanted to spread my black gospel whenever I had the opportunity. But here was Hanwell, whistling at the house, in admiration of its owner’s good fortune. “Do you hear that?” he said. The rain had stopped; we were about to leave the park. A child, I thought, was crying in one of the houses. “That’s a fox,” said Hanwell. “They scream that strange scream. It’s very close by us.” He stopped and looked around. He pulled his hat low over his eyes, as if wishing to camouflage himself. Exasperated, I took off my own hat and tipped the water out of its brim. That must have been the last year I wore a hat in England. Certainly, even by the following year there wasn’t a hat check left in any restaurant or public building in the country. People like Hanwell and me were the last dinosaurs as far as hats were concerned. “Quiet a minute,” said Hanwell as I opened my mouth to complain. Some lights went on in one of the grand houses across the way. I hated that subtle sign of concern and what it was meant to signal to the man outside: I don’t know what you’re doing out there, but I am awake, and should I have to I will not hesitate to call the police. When I had a house, I had the same smug habit. I well imagined the man peeling back his half of the bedcovers, pompously reassuring his wife, treading carefully on the stairs, proudly entering that great space he had worked so hard to own—his high-ceilinged living room—and peering out at these two dark figures in the square who might try to take it all away from him. When you lived where I lived now, when you heard the violent city noises, you didn’t switch any lights on. I coughed loudly and lit another cigarillo. “It’s not moving away. Listen to it!” said Hanwell, slowly approaching a big, well-maintained hedge by the exit. It was a piteous wail, and its human shape was irresistible even after one told oneself it was a fox, even after Hanwell pushed the greenery away with a long stick to reveal the trembling fox itself, collapsed on its knees upon the ground. “Pretty thing,” I said, and I can remember now what a deliberate understatement that was. It was, in truth, extraordinary to be standing this close to something so wild, so usually elusive, so slender-legged, so orange-tailed, so yellow-eyed, so unexpected. We were face to snout with the animal. “What’s wrong with it?” I asked gruffly. “Why the bloody hell doesn’t it move?” Hanwell gently poked it with the stick; it wailed again, but it didn’t stand. “It must be maimed somehow,” said Hanwell. There wasn’t a mark on it. It was as spotless as if it had been stuffed, and it was perfectly serene apart from this terrible screaming. From the lit house came the sound of a sash window being forced up. Hanwell put his wet boot on the fox’s slim throat. “What are you doing?” I said with alarm, and at the same moment Hanwell brought his boot down hard and broke its neck. “Better to put it out of its misery,” said Hanwell blandly. Quite unexpectedly—for I am almost never sick—I turned around and threw up. “Are you all right?” said Hanwell, although he did not make any move to help me. I thought, Men like us don’t know how to comfort each other. We need women for that. I felt a little throb of despair pass through me; the absolute certainty that there would be no one waiting for me tonight, no matter what time I came home. “Ridiculous of me,” I said, straightening up. “I think maybe I should go home.” It was now that Hanwell left his fox and turned to me, his face full of distress. “But we’re almost there—” “All the same,” I said firmly, trying to clean myself up a little with a handkerchief, that other obsolete item, “I think my night is over.” “But—I’d hoped—” He bit his lip as he had in the restaurant, like a small child fearing a punishment. “What? What had you hoped?” I was angry with him now. It seemed as if all the failures of my evening were somehow connected to him—not getting the girl, losing the drink I had spent good money putting inside me, being wet, being cold—and if I could only get away from him my life would immediately begin to improve. “I’d hoped you’d help me.” “If it’s money you wanted, you can forget it. I’m poor as a church mouse,” I said, and set off in the opposite direction. I’d barely taken a step when I slid on the wet paving stones. Hanwell broke the better part of my fall, but I still found that my will deserted me inches before the ground. I resisted Hanwell’s help and instead gave myself to a shallow puddle, tinted orange in the street lights. I sat there quietly for a minute. I had the keen sense that this was the lowest moment of my decline, that there would be nothing beneath this. Time has proved that instinct correct. Two wet strangers, outdoors, without women, at night, and with death curled up nearby. Whenever I am in need of spiritual nourishment, I remember that moment and feel gratitude to God for never allowing me to fall so low again. Only a certain kind of man could find himself in such a situation. I am not that man anymore. The memory of what I was makes me shudder now, but at the time the only appropriate reaction was laughter. I laughed so loud that two more lights turned on in the square. “I suppose it is quite funny, Clive,” said Hanwell, very sadly. I stopped laughing. I looked up at the stranger with his hand on my shoulder. He had that same hopeful look on his face with which he had delivered the marvellous crêpes. “I don’t know you, Hanwell.” I examined his face—his prosaic Suffolk profile, the pouchy, boyish jaw—and I remember thinking, I’m wrong, we’ve met before, a thousand times. Men in England have looked like Hanwell since the days of King Raedwald; there are hundreds of Hanwells in that fearful mound in Sutton Hoo. It was impossible not to be reassured by this. “No. That’s true. But it’s so nearby. You could get dry and then set off again in the morning.” “I haven’t any money, you know.” “Don’t insult me again,” Hanwell said as firmly as any gentleman. I wondered whether this was a glimmer of the polish he’d picked up in Paris. And he hadn’t lied: in a minute more we were climbing the lurid iron steps to his second-floor flat, every step wet and slick and heavy with the possibility of a lethal accident. Inside, the flat was no bigger than mine, but it was a good deal cleaner. At once, one noticed evidence of a previous, family existence. Pretty blue china plates hung above the doorway. Doilies seemed to cover all the limited surfaces, and on top of them stray ornaments were lined up, all too clearly snatched from a larger gathering of better examples. My eyes were drawn immediately to a large black-and-white photo pinned above the oven (which was in a corner of the lounge): three appealing dark-haired teen-age girls sitting on a bench. Of course, one of them—the prettiest, if I may say so—was you. As soon as he saw me looking at it, Hanwell plucked the photo from the wall. I had the impression he would have done this anyway, whether I’d looked or no. Hanwell offered his family to his guest in the same way most men would offer a drink. I smiled and nodded, but I was distracted by the dryness of my throat. I needed to be drunk so as to explain to myself why, in the middle of the night, I had decided to come to the flat of a man who washed dishes for the thugs at Barry Franks’s place. “That’s Emily,” said Hanwell, happily. “And that’s Carol and that’s Claire. Claire’s got all her mother’s beauty, you can see that.” Having never seen your mother, I was at a loss as to how to continue this line of conversation. “Very nice.” I took my cigarillos out of my breast pocket. They were sodden and smelled of compost. “Any chance of a fag, Hanwell? And maybe a drink?” “You see, the thing is,” said Hanwell, quickly, “I was hoping you could do me a favor. It’s a bit embarrassing.” “I’m beyond embarrassment, Hanwell, my friend. I’m sitting here begging you for a whiskey. Let’s have a whiskey and then we’ll deal with all other business in turn. I’m going to take my trousers off and put them on the radiator, if that’s all right.” “It’ll need a shilling for the meter,” Hanwell said worriedly, in the tone of a Gypsy grandmother recalling a family curse, and disappeared out of the room for a minute with my trousers. To my enormous relief, he returned with a bottle of very good Irish malt. It was improbably good, and I asked him how he had come by it. “Oh, you meet people who help you here and there,” said Hanwell, pouring me out a measure. “Do you? I don’t seem to.” “It’s only that you don’t realize they’re helping you. The heating’s on now—your trousers’ll be dry in a jiffy.” Hanwell stood up and began pottering around the room like a woman, straightening the meagre curtains, tidying away little things into drawers. I drank three shots, one after the other, and sat back in my chair. A small embroidered pillow connected softly with the back of my head. It was such an unlikely luxury that I let out an involuntary whimper of pleasure. “Laura made that.” “Laura?” “Laura, my wife.” “Ah. The one in London.” Hanwell nodded. “And why isn’t she with you again?” I asked. I realized that I knew nothing at all about Hanwell or why he was alone and washing dishes so late in his life. The greater part of it I never found out—until you told me. At the time, he offered only a painful series of incredibly delicate euphemisms, and it was a minute or so before I understood the sad truth. “Did you find her?” I asked, unforgivably. When one is drunk, morbid curiosity is undisguisable. But Hanwell did not seem at all offended by it. “She was in the stairwell on the way to the cellar,” he said, matter-of-factly. “She’d hung herself with the wotsit you tie a bathrobe with, the cord. It was a terrible thing.” We were both quiet for a minute, considering death in the incompetent way that people do. “But why did you tell me she was in London?” “She is.” “I’m sorry, Hanwell. It is a terrible thing. Have another drink.” We didn’t know each other; there was nothing else to say. “Excuse me,” said Hanwell. He left the room again. I remember drinking my drink and then another one, and letting my eye wander around this strange amalgamation of lounge and kitchen, with its junk-store furniture and filthy net curtains. Here and there one could spot the sad, cheap family heirlooms that were all a man like Hanwell could claim of his endless English ancestry. A jug and bowl, both painted with a sentimental swan, sat incongruously in the nook of the fireplace, reminding one of the Hanwells of the past who did their ablutions in their bedrooms for lack of a bathroom. Hung over the back of one chair was a stringy fur with the little feet still attached, the kind of thing women used to wear over their shoulders before the war. His wife’s? His mother’s? It made me think of Hanwell’s fox again. I wondered what would put Hanwell out of his misery or what would put me out of mine. The next thing I remember is smelling turpentine. I stood up and moved to the door. I had no idea what the door led onto. For all I knew, Hanwell’s flat bordered the edge of the world and by passing through this door I would simply fall into whatever hole contains forever. In fact, the door led directly to another room, no bigger than the room we had been in but stripped of decoration. All the furniture was piled in the middle of the room under a white dust sheet, like an obscene heap of bodies. The rest of the room was being painted a violent, hellish deep red by Hanwell, who was on a stepladder with a brush in his hand. “I thought you’d fallen asleep,” said Hanwell, seriously. “Why would you think that?” “I looked in. It looked like you were sleeping.” I had no watch on and no idea if this was true or not. “Hanwell, what are you doing, for Christ’s sake? It’s two in the morning or something like it.” “This is the girls’ room,” said Hanwell, climbing down from his ladder, looking sheepish. “I mean, I hope it will be for them. I hoped you might help me, actually.” “Paint it? I suggest you hire a bloody painter, Hanwell—I came for a drink, not to be your skivvy.” “No—” said Hanwell, urgently, “not that. I wanted an opinion. Is it the right kind of yellow? I’m color-blind—I didn’t like to ask the assistant—it’s called Deepest Sun. I want them to wake up and feel that the place is always full of sunshine, you see.” “Yellow?” “Don’t tell me it’s not right,” he said, looking at me rather desperately. “This is all the paint I can afford at the moment. But there’s that small pot left there—I’m going to do the skirting with that now. And the window frames. I want it to be just like sunset wall to wall, do you see? I think they blame me,” he said suddenly, and sat down on the penultimate step of his little ladder. He was a ridiculous sight: weary and pink and softly weeping in this terrifying red box. “It’s nobody’s fault, Hanwell.” He looked up at me curiously, as if we had just met. “No,” he said finally. “That’s true.” He wiped his eyes. “It’s a small room, though, for three girls that age.” “How old are they?” “Seventeen, sixteen, and fourteen. They’re with their uncle and aunt at the moment, in Bromley. I write, but they don’t send back.” “Have you got another paintbrush, Hanwell?” I went to work on the windows while Hanwell got on his knees for the skirting board. He was meticulous about it. He had a tiny brush for the corners and he went over the whole thing three times. By the time I’d done my second coat on the window frames, the real yellow sun was coming up. The red paint was so dark that it repelled the light, and though we could see the day beginning outside, inside the room it felt as though my night and Hanwell’s would never end. I had passed through tiredness to the other side; I felt as if I needed no sleep at all. In my underwear I could have painted that window frame a thousand times if it meant not going back out into the world. I was happy, I think. At about 6 a.m., it was clear even to poor Hanwell’s color-blind eyes that we could put no more red on the red wall. I stepped down from my ladder and brought in two more shots of whiskey. We sat on the floor and admired our handiwork. We had made a room for you and your sisters. It was a good feeling. It had been so long since I made anything at all. “What will you do with them when they’re here?” I asked Hanwell. He spoke for a long time; he had elaborate plans. He imagined that you would be happy to hang around Franks in the daytime and watch him wash dishes, or maybe your sister would sing with the band, and when he couldn’t keep an eye on you, you could spend time with Barry Franks’s two odious sluttish daughters, whom I knew to be the girlfriends of two of the worst thugs in town. This was another piece of information I kept to myself. “Are you sure they’ll come, Hanwell?” I asked him when he’d finished outlining his strange ideas. He smiled broadly. I thought it extremely unlikely that any daughter of Hanwell’s would ever spend a night in this room as we just had, but again I held my counsel. More and more, I suspect that men of our generation were not to be lived with. We made people unhappy because we ourselves were made unhappy in irrevocable ways. My own daughter takes great pleasure in knowing the measure of me, of judging and convicting me, and maybe she is right, and maybe you are, too. These days, everyone passes the blame backward—but we couldn’t do that. We kept blame close, we held it tight. I’m sorry your father made you so unhappy. Maybe the other replies you receive will help you put the blame in the right place and “come to terms,” as people say now. But when I saw your request in the paper my first thought was of a man likable enough to remember—this is no small feat. Almost everyone I met back then I’d rather forget. Even writing this I feel happy at the thought of Hanwell’s prawn-and-mushroom crêpes and the care with which he touched up the skirting board. I think you are too hard on him. And I think you were wrong to think that he knew all the time you and your sisters wouldn’t come, or that he didn’t want you to. Hanwell had a beautiful way of hoping. Not many men can hope red yellow. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Spider Boy	“There are places in the world where people vanish.” His father had said this. His father had spoken flatly, without an air of mystery or threat. It was not a statement to be challenged and it was not a statement to be explained. Later, when he had not seen his father for a long time—or what seemed to him a long time, months, or maybe just weeks—he would try to summon the words again, exactly as his father had uttered them, but by this time he’d become uncertain, anxious. Had he said, Where people vanish, or where people can vanish? It was such a crucial distinction! “Remember your new name. Think before you answer. Not just ‘What’s your name?’ but any question. It helps to lick your lips. That will give you time not to make a mistake you can’t unmake.” His mother smiled. She had had her hair cut and restyled and she had a new way of clasping, her shaky left hand in her more forceful right hand, at waist level, as a practiced tennis player might clasp a racquet. Yet it was not his name but his surname that was at issue. For his surname had been so disgraced that he had come to feel a certain fascination with its forbidden sound—the elided consonants and vowels, the lift of its final syllable in an expression of (possibly mocking) surprise, like an arched eyebrow. In private, Philip spoke his old name aloud, mimicking the newscasters who gave to it an air of intrigue and reproach. Sometimes at night, in bed in his new room in his grandparents’ house, he pressed his face deeply into the pillow and spoke the forbidden name, each syllable equally and defiantly stressed—Szaar-ra. He spoke the name until his breath ran out and his lungs ached and through his body raced a half-pleasurable panic that he had to smother. A pillow. Where his mouth was, wet with saliva. A pillow is a comforting thing when your head rests on it, but if you are lying on your back and a pillow is pressed against your face you cannot summon the strength to push it away and save yourself. “Yes. We’ve moved out of state.” Before even the impeachment hearings his mother had filed for divorce. And before she’d filed for divorce she’d moved them—Emily, Philip, herself—into her parents’ big stone house overlooking the Hudson River in Nyack, New York. Now it was a drive of several hours to their old house in Trenton, overlooking the Delaware River. On the map, that distance was not really very far, but there was an air of finality in his mother’s frequently repeated phrase: “Out of state.” Out of state caught in Philip’s mind, uttered in his mother’s breathless, adamant tone. As you might say Out of space, out of time. Out of danger, out of harm. Out of toxic contagion. In this new state it was essential to have a new name, to replace and nullify the old, disgraced name—quickly!—before Emily and Philip were enrolled in their new schools. Nyack Academy for Emily, who was fifteen and in her second year of high school, Edgerstoune School for Philip, who would be thirteen in August and entering eighth grade. In New Jersey both children had gone to the Pennington School, in a northern Trenton suburb. Sometimes their mother drove them to school, sometimes one of their father’s assistants. There was also a private bus provided by the school, the same bright-pumpkin hue as public-school buses but only a third the size. Riding on this bus, brother and sister never sat together, and had acknowledged each other only politely, with diffident smiles. For a few weeks during the impeachment hearings they’d continued to attend the Pennington School, but when criminal charges were brought against their father their mother had removed them from school. “It has to be done. They can’t be made to suffer for him. They are only children.” In Nyack, it became official: Where Szaara had been, now there was Hudgkins. Where Philip Szaara had been, now there was Philip Hudgkins. This wasn’t a “new” new name, of course. It was their Nyack grandparents’ name, with which their mother insisted they had only happy associations. Their mother took up her maiden name with relief. During the sixteen years of her marriage to the New Jersey politician Roy Szaara, she had continued to be known to certain of her women friends, with whom she’d gone to Bryn Mawr, as Miriam Hudgkins. And so: “It isn’t a great change. It’s more like coming back home.” Spider Boy. You might have thought that the name was a playful reference to the comic-strip superhero Spider-Man, but in fact Philip had no interest in Spider-Man, just as he had no interest in any of the comics, action films, and video games that so captivated other boys. “Spider Boy.” Saying it aloud was a way of evoking the haunting and powerful presence that existed now only in memory. If it weren’t for a single memento (smelly, ugly, of a clumsy size, and in no way to be mistaken for something of Philip’s own), which he kept in a secret place in his room, Philip might have begun to wonder whether Spider Boy had ever existed. And yet he vividly remembered the effort of smiling. And a strange sensation in his jaws. His voice like a girl’s voice, weak and disappointing. He’d had to repeat his words so that Spider Boy could hear them amid the traffic noises. He remembered jamming both hands into the pockets of his Pennington School jacket. He remembered that Spider Boy, panhandling in front of the Camden train station, had been standing in an odd posture—sexy-swaggering, you might say—one hand brashly extended palm up and the other, as if for ballast, clenched and shoved in a pocket of his filthy jeans. Spider Boy was older than Philip by several years. He was taller by several inches. He had a shaved head and deep-set glassy-dark eyes. His jaws were covered in a darkish ghost beard. There was something twitchy, even spidery, about the way his arms jutted from his bony shoulders, and about his restless lanky legs. He wore a grungy black T-shirt and jeans torn at the knees. On his feet: splayed sneakers crudely mended with tape. The smallest toe of his left foot protruded through the rotted sneaker fabric like a wayward tongue. Philip had never called him Spider Boy, of course. At the time, he had not been capable of much more than Excuse me? and he’d been excited and anxious and taken by surprise when he’d seen with what eagerness the boy turned to him, a sudden flaring in the sunken eyes of something like hope. Spider Boy. Philip wanted to feel revulsion for him. For then he would not feel a more tender emotion. “But how would they know who you are?” His mother laughed at him, not cruelly but in the way of a mother who loves her child no matter how silly, how mistaken, how annoying he is. “Why, if you are exactly who you say you are, Philip Hudgkins, would anyone at your new school think that you are not?” Philip hesitated. He frowned. This was squiggling up your face in a way that exasperated his mother. Quickly he murmured yes, he guessed she was right, he was sorry. Her eyes brimmed with the pain of their mutual hurt: “Oh, I know you don’t mean it, honey. It’s your nerves.” He supposed, yes. Calling it nerves was a way of reminding Philip that he was sensitive, like his mother. Not crude and cruel, manipulative and maneuvering, like his father. Moreover, nerves were not his fault but the result of other people’s behavior. The fault of the circumstances of our lives. Yet it was honey that most reverberated in his ears. This, too, was a signal— that he was loved, as a child is loved, that he was not an adolescent boy but a child-boy, his mother’s baby. He felt a pang of guilt at the sound of the word; he didn’t deserve honey, just as he didn’t deserve his mother’s love. Soon he would outgrow it, as even his mother would have to acknowledge. Philip’s father hadn’t called him honey in a long time. Using such baby names for a boy offended his father’s sense of manly propriety. Instead, his father called him by his full, formal name, Philip. Mostly, though, when they were alone together or in the presence of a hitchhiker (“hitchhiker” was the term by which the boys were known) his father called him only you. In the presence of hitchhikers his father had a way of speaking exuberantly yet guardedly. A way of laughing that made you want to laugh with him. He was likely to tousle Philip’s hair and tease him the way you’d tease a younger child. He was more affectionate, squeezing Philip’s arm at the elbow as he let him out of the car at the corner of State Street and Mercer, to return to the twelfth-floor apartment alone. “You’ve got a key, let yourself in. If I’m not back by twelve, don’t wait up. I’ll see you in the morning.” Sometimes, Hey, you, be good, and an impulsive kiss on the side of Philip’s head, against his left temple, where a thin blue vein beat tremulously. The headmaster, Dr. Simmons, made a point of saying hello to the new transfer student from Jersey whom most of his classmates ignored. Hello and How are your mother and her family, tactfully making no mention of any father living or dead. How are you, with a warm and encouraging smile, like someone greeting a convalescent. And Philip did his best to smile back and reply in emulation of his mother’s telephone voice, never failing to include sir. With the passage of months it became painfully clear to Philip that not only wasn’t his identity suspected, he was also mostly invisible in the eyes of his classmates. If he was jostled by bigger boys it was only because he was there, a diminutive physical presence, to be jostled. He, Philip Hudgkins, a transfer student with a way of retreating even as he moved forward, held little appeal for those who might have wished, in other circumstances, to be cruel. His teachers knew, Philip supposed. Though Dr. Simmons had promised not to tell anyone (or so Philip’s mother insisted), still it seemed likely to Philip that they knew. In Nyack, in certain circles, there had to be some residual knowledge of the long linkage between Hudgkins and Szaara. Philip’s mother wished not to recall the fact that she’d been married in Nyack and for sixteen years had brought her gregarious and attractive Republican rising-star husband home to visit her parents and to be introduced to their friends. How could this connection be nullified by her frantic efforts now? Worse yet, in midwinter, after months of quiet, Szaara headlines began to reëmerge, no longer confined to the New Jersey media but appearing in the Metro section of the Times as well. For the news had catapulted beyond charges of misconduct in political office, misuse of public funds, bribe-taking, and dealmaking into far more serious criminal charges of statutory rape, sexual assault upon a minor, abduction of a minor, and conspiracy to commit these crimes. Investigators for the state attorney general’s office, wiretapping Roy Szaara’s phones to gather evidence for his political misconduct, had been astonished to discover evidence for an entirely different category of criminal activity. Several times that last summer, Philip and his father had gone camping at the Delaware Water Gap park, in northwestern New Jersey. That is, the intention had been to go camping there. In the back seat of his father’s car were newly purchased sleeping bags, hiking boots, plastic bottles of Evian water, and packages of granola. A lightweight blanket from L. L. Bean, a pillow. Philip’s mother rarely asked about his weekends with his father. “Your mother doesn’t really give a damn about you any more than she does about me,” his father said. “It’s only pride with her, see. Her wounded class pride, her wish to scrape me off her shoes.” His father chuckled and leaned over to kiss the side of Philip’s head. Roy Szaara had a large solid face, burnished like a coin. It was the face of a man much photographed. Laugh lines radiated from the corners of his eyes, which were clear, frank, and engaging. He had a razor-sharp part in his graying dark hair. For certain of his public appearances he wore makeup—inky-black mascara lightly brushed against his eyelashes. For their trips to Chester, Pennsylvania, to South Philly and Camden, New Jersey, he wore tinted glasses in stylish metal frames. He whistled, he was in good spirits. He rarely spoke of his week at the state capitol except to tell Philip that things were going very well. He did not inquire after Philip’s mother or sister. He had always shaved just before picking Philip up at the Pennington School, on Friday afternoons at 3:20 p.m. He smelled of aftershave and something sweet, like vanilla. “Go over there. Poor kid, ask him if he wants a ride. If he’s hungry.” It was the bus station at Chester. Or the Thirtieth Street railway station, in Philadelphia. Or the Camden train station. That last time, Philip’s father had urged him from the car with a gentle nudge against his shoulder. Like a sleepwalker, but with unnaturally widened eyes, Philip had made his way past a noisy family loading their minivan to the boy panhandling listlessly at the curb. He was a lone white boy whom no one gave more than a cursory glance. He stood with one hand extended palm up, stubborn and unmoving. There was something both childlike and feral about him that made Philip shy, so he was surprised when the boy looked at him eagerly, as if hoping he might know him. “Excuse me? My dad and me, we’re going to McDonald’s for some hamburgers. You could come with us. Dad says.” These words had been programmed for Philip. Except for Dad says, which was his own invention. Later, after they’d eaten, his father drove to Trenton to let Philip off at the apartment. It was late now, nearing 10 p.m., and Philip’s head ached with exhaustion. He was in the back seat of the car and the boy, the hitchhiker, who’d said that his name was Reuben but had been coy about providing a last name, was in the passenger’s seat beside Philip’s father. Reuben was smoking a cigarette Philip’s father had given him and he was talking loudly, boastfully. His speech was interlaced with shit, suck, fuck. At McDonald’s, Reuben had wolfed down three Quarter Pounders, two orders of French fries, and a giant Coke. He had shocked Philip by belching loudly and without apology, as if making a witticism. The conversation had been mostly between Reuben and Philip’s father, but Philip had not been hurt, or anyway not much hurt, for something similar had happened twice before in his father’s company at other McDonald’s with other starving hitchhikers, and each time Philip had consoled himself by thinking, Dad wants him to feel special. He is someone to be pitied. It came out that Reuben was from Toms River, East Jersey. He’d “hung out” in Atlantic City for a while, then caught a ride to Philly, where he had contacts. He was headed for New York, he said, “eventually.” When, at the corner of State Street and Mercer, Philip moved to climb out of the car, Reuben had looked surprised, asking wasn’t he coming with them? But Philip’s father had explained that Philip was too young for the place he wanted to take Reuben, the Café à Go-Go Bar & Lounge. Philip was much too young. Philip’s father had laughed, and Reuben had laughed with him, exhaling a mouthful of smoke. “You’ve got the key. Don’t wait up. Good night!” Philip hid inside the vestibule and watched his father drive away with Reuben. Now he felt a stab of jealousy, but he knew that, the next day, Reuben would be gone and he would have his father to himself. It was the new Acura his father was driving, a sedan with a beautiful pale-bronze finish. Roy Szaara always drove new cars, which he leased. Philip had seen the admiration in the boy’s eyes as they’d approached the Acura. Now he watched as it moved back into State Street traffic. Soon it disappeared in a stream of glittering cars headed for the bridge over the Delaware River. Next day, the pillow was gone from the back seat of the car, though the rest of the camping gear remained. Philip wondered if it was in the trunk of the car. Or if his father had thrown it away. Before Spider Boy, there had been Fat Boy, and Baldie. There had been Luis, and Smoke. When Philip asked his father where the hitchhikers had gone, his father laughed and tousled his hair and said, “There are places in the world where people vanish.” Later, Philip’s father explained that the hitchhikers were a secret between him and Philip that no one must ever know. Did Philip promise to keep this secret? Yes. Philip promised. Because the hitchhikers were boys who’d broken the law. They were boys “wanted” by the law for juvenile crimes and very likely they would have been sent to juvenile-detention facilities—“juvey hall,” as it was called—if Philip’s father had not acted to prevent this. He’d convinced them to return to their homes. He’d given them the money to return by bus. He’d listened as they called their parents and he’d insisted on getting on the phone to explain who he was and what the situation was. “These are lost boys needing to be found,” he said. Sometimes, in the apartment, Philip discovered things that the hitchhikers had left behind: soiled socks and underwear, crumpled cigarette packages, a single sneaker mended with duct tape. A plastic belt patterned to resemble crocodile skin. A sweat-stained baseball cap. Once, his father came up behind him to snatch a filthy undershirt Philip had been holding. Harshly, he laughed. “For shame. Your mother should keep you cleaner.” For a long time those words had reverberated in his ears with a ring of playful reproach. He was a fastidious boy who washed his hands often and had a compulsion to brush his teeth immediately after eating, for he could not bear the sensation of food particles between his teeth. Over time, he would come to believe that the filthy undershirt had in fact been his and he was flooded with a deep shame, for his father had seen it, and his father, too, would remember. Spider Boy was a secret and would remain a secret. He had promised. Oh, but he’d done a bad thing, a thing that his father would not have liked. For his father trusted him, and Philip had violated that trust. He’d taken with him, wrapped in his own underwear in the rucksack he brought his things in, the single sneaker mended with duct tape, a badly torn, stained and foul-smelling gunmetal-gray sneaker probably twice the size of his own shoes. If he’d been asked why he would bring such a filthy thing home with him, he could not have said, except that it would have been lost otherwise. As if in punishment for what he’d done, suddenly there were no more weekends in Trenton. Not for some time would Philip learn why. And then, ten months after the move to Nyack, the call came. The former Mrs. Miriam Szaara was ordered to bring her thirteen-year-old son, Philip, to Trenton Police Headquarters to be questioned by detectives involved in the “continuing investigation” into former New Jersey Republican State Senator Roy Szaara. Philip’s father had begun serving his twelve-to-fifteen-year sentence at the New Jersey Men’s Facility at Rahway. He’d pleaded guilty to assorted charges in order to avoid a protracted and lurid trial, and further legal costs, for he’d declared bankruptcy. The ugly headlines had disappeared from the Times, replaced by other lurid headlines pertaining to strangers. Philip’s mother remained unshaken in her belief that by changing their surname she had severed all links with her former husband, and no one dared suggest otherwise. Now she was furious! And even more incensed when the detective who’d called her offered to “provide transportation” for her and her son to Police Headquarters. “As if I can’t drive by myself. As if I don’t know the way. As if I might get lost. As if I might disappear.” Philip had to be excused from school and brought with him several textbooks in which he might hide from his mother. “But why, why? Why would they want to involve you?” He had not seen his father since the mandated weekends had come to an abrupt end. Since before his father’s resignation had played and replayed on New Jersey network TV. How many weeks after the night of Spider Boy that had been he’d have had to calculate. The stolen sneaker was safely hidden in his room behind a row of old videos: “Fly Away Home,” “Winged Migration,” “When Dinosaurs Reigned.” The Guatemalan woman who cleaned house for Philip’s grandparents knew not to touch Philip’s videos or anything else on his shelves or desk. He hadn’t been questioned about his father before. Once, with a forced smile, his mother had inquired about his weekends in Trenton, had things been “all right,” and Philip had said yes and that was all. Still, since his father’s departure from his life Philip thought of him more frequently. He had not dared suggest, even to his grandparents, that he be allowed to visit his father in prison, for such a request would have dismayed and infuriated them, and there was no chance, not the faintest glimmer of a chance, that he might say such a thing to his mother. Now, seeing signs for the Rahway exit on the turnpike, Philip’s mother said suddenly, with a breathless laugh, “There! We could stop. You’d like that, wouldn’t you?” Philip shook his head. No. For he knew that his father would not want to be seen in such a place. His father had always dressed so stylishly—expensive clothes, haircuts. His fingernails were manicured and the cuffs of his trademark white silk dress shirts always spotless. Philip found this comforting, or had. He had admired his father’s heavy, handsome watch, with its platinum-gold stretch band—an expensive watch with a famous brand name, received as a gift. His father had joked that the damned watch was so heavy he couldn’t wear it in bed. Damned watch didn’t keep time as well as the cheap Timex watches he’d bought in drugstores as a kid. Now everywhere, even in the company of his mother, and in his classes at the Edgerstoune School, Philip thought of his father and heard his father’s teasing and admonishing voice. Your mother should keep you cleaner. Secret between us, promise? Repeatedly he heard, There are places in the world where people vanish, or was it There are places in the world where people can vanish? He saw again the beautiful pale-bronze Acura cruising the streets of Chester, South Philly, Camden. He saw the view of glittering lights from his father’s twelfth-floor apartment. He was sure that at the Camden train station the ghost figure of Spider Boy might be spotted, that the brightly lit booth at McDonald’s would retain the ghost figures of all three of them, if only he could go back and look. On the drive to Trenton he was beset by such memories. They had exited the turnpike and were driving south on Route 1 toward Trenton and the Delaware River, and as always there was the small thrill of “Exit Only” and “Last Exit Before Bridge to Pa.” Here was a mostly abandoned industrial landscape of smokestacks and refineries, factories and warehouses marooned within acres of cracked pavement, overgrown vacant lots, oily ponds, billboards of tattered yet grinning faces, tenement buildings with boarded-up windows. Philip smiled, as if wishing to believe that he was coming home, though the house on the Delaware River had been sold and his father’s apartment had been vacant for months. “Ever seen him before, Philip? Take your time.” Spread across the table in the windowless interview room were a half- dozen snapshots of a thin, dark-haired boy not much older than Philip, frowning at the camera. His head was not shaved but covered in lustrous dark curls and his eyes were clear and not shadowed like a skull’s eyes, yet you could tell that this was Spider Boy, younger than when Philip had seen him. Quickly Philip shook his head. No. He’d never seen this boy before. “This is a missing boy, Philip. He’s fourteen in these pictures. He’s older now, and he’s been missing since last May. Any information you can provide.” Philip sat silent, staring. In two of the photographs the boy was wearing a white T-shirt and smoking a cigarette. In one he was wearing what appeared to be a rumpled pajama top, partly opened to show a pale sunken chest and a single berry-colored nipple. No. Philip had no information to provide. His mother stood close behind him with her hand on his shoulder. “Take your time, Philip. There’s no hurry.” There were two detectives. Philip knew that they were watching him closely, and that they were aware of his mother’s quickened breathing. They had surprised Philip by shaking hands with him as if he were an adult. They took care to call his mother “Ms. Hudgkins.” In the confusion of the moment Philip had not heard their names. He had not heard most of what the detectives had said. He understood that his mother was annoying them by insisting over and over that her son was only a child and knew nothing about his father’s private life. He had not seen his father in months. He had rarely seen his father during the last several years, for his father had lived apart from the family since Philip was ten. Now he was only thirteen and he was trying to adjust to a new home and a new school. . . . The detectives listened politely. They did not interrupt. Philip felt a pang of embarrassment that his mother had become a woman to be pitied and humored. She was wearing dark clothing and her hair was pulled back into a chignon, yet her mouth flashed red with lipstick and her eyes were unnaturally bright. It had been suggested to Philip’s mother that she wait outside while the detectives spoke with Philip, but of course she had refused. She had not brought her son all the way to Trenton, she said, to abandon him to strangers. “Any of these? Look familiar?” There were folders of such photographs. All were of teen-age boys. Philip was smiling, and shaking his head no. He was having difficulty seeing, but he did not want to wipe his eyes on his sleeve. The gesture would be a sign of weakness, and he knew that adult men are contemptuous of weakness in boys. “Take your time, Philip. We understand.” The hand on Philip’s shoulder was urgent; he could feel nails through his shirt. Suddenly, Philip had to use a rest room. The need came upon him as quick as a pain. His mother insisted upon accompanying him.“I don’t want him alone for a moment. Not in this place.” Philip resented his mother’s speaking of him in the third person, as if he were a very young child. When he moved toward the door as if to elude her, she seized his arm and walked with him, holding him captive. The detectives behaved as if this were nothing unusual. But Philip saw their eyes on his mother in the way he’d sometimes seen, years ago, his father’s eyes on her, detached and calculating. At the men’s room (they were on the second floor of the Trenton Police Headquarters, in an old, partly renovated building on North Clinton Avenue), Philip’s mother balked at allowing him to go inside alone. Nor did she want one of the detectives to accompany him. Oh, Philip hated this woman right then! He dreaded having her enter the men’s room with him. One of the detectives suggested a compromise: he would look into the rest room to make sure that no one was inside, then Philip’s mother could verify that this was so, and then Philip could use the rest room undisturbed. No one would be allowed to enter so long as Philip was inside and Philip’s mother could wait immediately outside the door to accompany him back to the interview room. In that way, Ms. Hudgkins could be assured that no one would approach her son without her permission. Reluctantly, as if suspecting a trick, Philip’s mother agreed, and Philip was able to use the rest room undisturbed. How like kindergarten this was, his mother anxiously overseeing his first days! He could not bear to see his reflection in the mirror. He could not bear to look at his weak, frightened soul glittering like tears in his eyes. It was difficult for him to pee. He wondered if a surveillance camera was trained on him. When he emerged from the rest room, he was shaking with indignation and trying not to cry. His mother said quickly that this was too upsetting for him, she was taking him back to Nyack immediately, and in a rage Philip threw off her hand and told the detectives, “I saw him. The first one. His name was Reuben.” Was he’d said without thinking. He had not meant was. He had no reason to think was. But all that he had been determined not to tell the detectives that day, suddenly he would tell in a rush of words that his mother could not prevent, and which would be recorded on tape and could not be unsaid. There was a comfort in this. “Still daylight! You’d think it would be night.” His mother was peering at her surroundings as if she had no idea where she was. They’d been in Police Headquarters for what seemed like a full day, and yet when they emerged the sun was still well above the horizon and the sky was hazy with light. Philip’s mother was shaken and dazed and moved like an elderly woman. At the car, she seemed to rouse herself. She turned the key in the ignition briskly and gunned the motor. In Trenton traffic, Philip’s mother impulsively turned west, in the direction of the river. She couldn’t bear Route 1, not for the second time that day. She would take the River Road north to I-95, and avoid most of Trenton altogether. It was out of their way, she said, but the detour was worth it. “We’ll pass the old house. But we won’t drop in. Strangers live there now. Good luck to them!” At Police Headquarters, Philip’s mother had become too upset to listen to his interview with the detectives and had had to be escorted from the room. Afterward, when he’d emerged from the interview room, she had hurried to embrace him wordlessly. He’d been crying, and she hugged him so tightly that they trembled together as the detectives looked on, embarrassed. Now, driving along the River Road, she said, as if thinking aloud, “You had to. I know.” Running parallel to the River Road was a narrow canal of muddy water and beyond the canal was the wide, windy Delaware River. On the other side of the highway were small suburban houses that, within a few miles, gave way to larger and more imposing houses in the hills. There, at the top of one landscaped hill, was the sprawling glass-and-stucco “contemporary” in which, long ago it now seemed, the Szaara family had lived. Philip’s mother did no more than glance at the house. “I was never happy there. That style of architecture has no soul.” Philip squinted at the house, barely visible behind a scrim of juniper pine. A pulse beat in his eyes. He hated it that strangers lived there now, that another child had appropriated his room. A boy his age or younger for whom the future held no dread. Philip expected his mother to turn onto the entrance ramp of I-95 near Titusville, but she drove past it without slowing. He dared not say anything to her. She was driving over the speed limit, clenching the steering wheel tight. They were veering ever farther from the turnpike and the Garden State Parkway, which would return them to Nyack. They were miles beyond suburban Trenton, in a sparsely populated area of western New Jersey bounded on the right by densely wooded hills. Philip’s mother was breathing quickly now. “I am so angry with you, Philip,” she said suddenly. “I am so angry my heart hurts from beating hard. I think I need to stop this car. I think you should get out of this car and leave me alone for a while.” Philip was stunned. He was unable to speak, to defend himself. At Police Headquarters he’d tried to say he was sorry, but his mother had hugged him warmly. She had seemed to forgive him. Yet now she was saying vehemently, “This shame you’ve brought us. This new shame. Hitchhikers! It will be in the newspapers, it will be on television. Where can we hide? I can’t move us again. You could have let it go, Philip. That boy, that missing boy, you could have let him go.” She was braking the car, skidding and sliding from the roadway into a deserted rest stop. They were at the edge of Washington Crossing State Park. Wordless, Philip yanked the car door open and charged blindly away. He was trembling with hurt, indignation. He was aware of picnic tables, benches. Shuttered rest rooms in a fake log cabin. An overturned trash can that reeked of garbage. He wasn’t going to cry, for he was furious. His mother had no right to punish him at such a time. He had told only the truth of what he knew and he did not wish the truth untold, even if it brought shame to them all. He knew that if he pleaded with his mother, if he returned to her tearful and craven, she would relent and love him again, but he’d had enough of her love, he’d had enough of his father’s love, and he hoped never to see either of them again. At the edge of the rest stop was a sodden woodchip trail leading into a hilly wooded area. A sign read “Mountain Meadow—3 Miles.” Philip began to hike the trail, breaking into a run from time to time. He had no idea where he was, what he was doing. He wanted only to run. In Trenton, in the interview room, he’d been exhausted and had wanted to lay his head down on his arms and shut his eyes, but in this new place his strength had returned. There was a smell here of rich damp earth and awakening vegetation. The day had been unseasonably warm for early April, and already small insects, gnats, and flies brushed against his face. He began to perspire. His mother had made him wear a lined jacket, which he removed and dropped on the trail. He was hiking uphill. All that summer, that previous summer, his father had promised to take him camping at the Delaware Water Gap, but always something had prevented it, always something had “come up.” Now he would never see his father again, for he’d broken his promise to him—all that was finished. He passed the one-mile marker, and he passed the two-mile marker. His feet were wet; the trail had become overgrown. His breath was erratic, exhilarated. By this time more than forty minutes had passed. By now his mother would be wandering forlorn and fretful among the picnic tables and the reeking garbage, calling, Philip? Phil-ip? Where are you?, uncertain if she should be angry or alarmed. He could see her tugging at the (padlocked) door of the men’s rest room. Her glaring red mouth as she called his name, called and called his name, and there came, in rebuke, only silence. The sun had descended in the sky and hung, pale and sickle-like, just above the tree line. Philip was on high ground, hiking along a ridge above a swift-flowing stream. The woodchip trail had long since vanished. This new trail was sometimes so faint as to be indistinct from the underbrush surrounding it. Philip began to hear voices. For a terrible moment he thought that he might have hiked in an ellipse, that he was returning to his mother, but that was impossible. He was making his way, trying not to lose his balance along the edge of a hill, and below the hill was the creek, and on the far side of the creek were several adults and children. A man was casting a fishing line into the dark glittering water. A boy crouched beside him. Philip halted, not wanting to be seen. He was about thirty feet above the creek, panting. He squatted amid boulders. He leaned his elbows on his knees, trying to catch his breath. Close around him were rocks; the slightest pressure might send one rolling down the hill. He was very still. He saw the boy on the creek bank glance up at him and wave. He saw the man with the fishing pole look toward him. He had not meant to be seen, but he had been seen. Impulsively he raised his arm to wave back. Maybe they would call to him? Maybe they would invite him to join them? Maybe that was how this long day would end, somewhere in western New Jersey in Washington Crossing State Park? ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Kansas	Last night the two of us had a conversation. I doubt you will remember it. I told you that I might be gone sometime, and you said where, and I said to be with the Good Lord, and you said why, and I said, because I’m old, and you said, I don’t think you’re old. And you put your hand in my hand and you said, you aren’t very old, as if that settled it. I told you you might have a very different life from mine, and from the life you’ve had with me, and that would be a wonderful thing, there are many ways to live a good life. And you said, Momma already told me that. And then you said, Don’t laugh! because you thought I was laughing at you. You reached up and put your fingers on my lips and gave me that look I never in my life saw on any other face beside your mother’s. It’s a kind of furious pride, very passionate and stern. I’m always a little surprised to find my eyebrows unsinged after I’ve suffered one of those looks. I will miss them. It seems ridiculous to suppose the dead miss anything. If you’re a grown man when you read this—it is my intention for this letter that you will read it then—I’ll have been gone a long time. I’ll know most of what there is to know about being dead, but I’ll probably keep it to myself. That seems to be the way of things. It was your mother’s thought that I should write some things down for you. She told you I would be writing your begats, and you seemed very pleased with the idea. Well then, what should I record for you? I, John Ames, was born in the Year of Our Lord 1880 in the State of Kansas, the son of John Ames and Martha Turner Ames, grandson of John Ames and Margaret Todd Ames. I don’t have much to say about myself. At this writing, May 15, 1956, I have lived seventy-six years, seventy-four of them right here in Gilead, Iowa, excepting study at the college and at seminary. My mother’s father was a preacher, and my father’s father was, too, and his father before him, and before that nobody knows, but I wouldn’t hesitate to guess. So this life was second nature to me. They were all fine people, but if there was one thing I should have learned from them and did not learn it was to control my temper. Even now, when a flutter of my pulse makes me think of final things, I find myself getting angry because a drawer sticks or because I’ve misplaced my glasses. I tell you so that you can watch for this in yourself. I don’t know how many times people have asked me what death is like, sometimes when they were only an hour or two from finding out for themselves. Even when I was a very young man, people as old as I am now would ask me, hold on to my hands and look into my eyes with their old milky eyes, as if they knew I knew and they were going to make me tell them. I used to say it was like going home. We have no home in this world, I used to say, and then I’d walk back up the road to this old place and make myself a pot of coffee and a fried-egg sandwich and listen to the radio, when I got one, in the dark, as often as not. Do you remember this house? I think you must, a little. I grew up in parsonages. I’ve lived in this one most of my life, and I’ve visited in a good many others, because my father’s friends and most of our relatives also lived in parsonages. And when I thought about it in those days, which wasn’t too often, I thought this was the worst of them all, the draftiest and the dreariest. It’s a perfectly good old house, but I was all alone in it then, and that made it seem strange to me. I didn’t feel very much at home in the world, that was a fact. Now I do. And now they say my heart is failing. The doctor used the term angina pectoris, which has a theological sound, like misericordia. Well, you expect these things at my age. My father died an old man, but his sisters didn’t live very long, really. So I can only be grateful. I do regret that I have almost nothing to leave you and your mother. A lot of old books no one else would want. I never made any money to speak of, and I never paid any attention to the money I had. It was the farthest thing from my mind that I’d be leaving a wife and child, believe me. I’d have been a better father if I’d known. I’d have set something by for you. That is the main thing I want to tell you, that I regret very deeply the hard times I know you and your mother must have gone through, with no real help from me at all, except my prayers, and I pray all the time. I did while I lived, and I do now, too, if that is how things are in the next life. We’re having a fine spring, and this is another fine day. You were almost late for school. We stood you on a chair and you ate toast and jam while your mother polished your shoes and I combed your hair. You had a page of sums to do that you should have done last night, and you took forever over them this morning, trying to get all the numbers facing the right way. You’re like your mother, so serious about everything. The old men call you Deacon, but that seriousness isn’t all from my side of the family. I’d never seen anything like it until I met her. Well, putting aside my grandfather. It seemed to me to be half sadness and half fury, and I wondered what in her life could have put that expression in her eyes. And then when you were about three, just a little fellow, I came into the nursery one morning and there you were down on the floor in the sunlight in your trapdoor pajamas, trying to figure a way to fix a broken crayon. And you looked up at me and it was just that look of hers. I’ve thought of that moment many times. I’ll tell you, sometimes it has seemed to me that you were looking back through life, back through troubles I pray you’ll never have, asking me to kindly explain myself. I can hear you talking with your mother, you asking, she answering. It’s not the words I hear, just the sounds of your voices. You don’t like to go to sleep, and every night she has to talk you into it all over again. I never hear her sing except at night, from the next room, when she’s coaxing you to sleep. And then I can’t make out what song it is she’s singing. Her voice is very low. It sounds beautiful to me, but she laughs when I tell her that. It’s true, though, that I can’t really tell what’s beautiful anymore. Now that I am about to put on imperishability, mere existence seems the most remarkable thing that could ever be imagined. I passed two young fellows on the street the other day. I know who they are—they work at the garage. They’re not churchgoing, either one of them, just decent rascally young fellows who have to be joking all the time, and there they were, propped against the garage wall in the sunshine, lighting up their cigarettes. They’re always so black with grease and so strong with gasoline I don’t know why they don’t catch fire themselves. They were passing remarks back and forth the way they do and laughing that wicked way they have. And it seemed beautiful to me. It is an amazing thing to watch people laugh, the way it sort of takes them over. Sometimes they really do struggle with it. I see that in church often enough. So I wonder what it is and where it comes from, and I wonder what it expends out of your system, so that you have to do it till you’re done, like crying in a way, I suppose, except that laughter is much more easily spent. When they saw me coming, of course the joking stopped, but I could see they were still laughing to themselves thinking what the old preacher almost heard them say. I felt like telling them, I appreciate a joke as much as anybody. There have been many occasions in my life when I have wanted to say that. But it’s not a thing people are willing to accept. They want you to be a little bit apart. I felt like saying, I’m a dying man, and I won’t have so many more occasions to laugh, in this world, at least. But that would just make them serious and polite, I suppose. I’m keeping my condition a secret as long as I can. For a dying man I feel pretty good, and that is a blessing. Of course your mother knows about it. She said if I feel good maybe the doctor is wrong. But at my age there’s a limit to how wrong he can be. And what else should I tell you? I’ll tell you about my grandfather. He was a chaplain in the Union Army. He lost an eye at the battle of Wilson’s Creek, on the day of the death of General Lyon. I do wish you could have known him. It was as if that one good eye of his were somehow ten times an eye. He could make me feel as though he had poked me with a stick, just by looking at me. Not that he meant any harm to speak of. He was just afire with old certainties, and he couldn’t bear all the patience that was required of him by the peace and by the aging of his body and the forgetfulness that had settled over everything. He thought we should all be living at a dead run. I don’t say he was wrong. That would be like contradicting John the Baptist. There is a photograph of my grandfather around the house somewhere. It is a good likeness. It shows a wild-haired, one-eyed, scrawny old fellow with a crooked beard, like a paintbrush left to dry with lacquer in it, staring down the camera as if it had accused him of something terrible, very suddenly, and he is still thinking how to reply, and keeping the question at bay with the sheer ferocity of that stare. Of course there is guilt enough in the best life to account for a look like that. In his old age my grandfather lived with us here in Gilead. Then he ran off to Kansas, where he died. When he left us we all felt his absence bitterly, though he did make things difficult. It was an innocence in him. He lacked patience for anything but the plainest interpretations of the starkest commandments, “To him who asks, give,” in particular. He never kept anything that was worth giving away, or let us keep it, either. He would take laundry right off the line. My mother said he was worse than any thief, worse than a house fire. She said she could probably go to any town in the Middle West and see some pair of pants she’d patched walking by in the street. And we were not the only ones he plundered. My mother said you could tell where a Congregationalist lived by the padlock on the shed door. I believe he was a saint of some kind, in his old age. When someone remarked in his hearing that he had lost an eye in the Civil War, he said, “I prefer to remember that I have kept one.” My mother said it was good to know there was anything he could keep. I describe my grandfather as if he were simply an eccentric, and as if we tolerated him and were respectful of him and loved him, and he loved us. And that is true. But I believe we knew also that his eccentricities were thwarted passion, that he was full of anger, at us not least, and that the tremors of his old age were in some part the tremors of pent grief. He had lived so many years in a rage and an ecstasy of hope, intent on freeing the captive, proclaiming liberty. He told me once about a vision he had when he was still a boy in Maine, sometime in the eighteen-thirties. He had fallen asleep by the fire, worn out from a day helping his father pull stumps. Someone touched him on the shoulder, and when he looked up, there was the Lord, holding out His arms to him, which were bound in chains. My grandfather said, “Those irons had rankled right down to His bones.” He told me that as the saddest fact, and eyed me with the one seraph eye he had, the old grief fresh in it. He was not yet sixteen, but he said he knew then that he had to come to Kansas and make himself useful to the cause of abolition. (To be useful was the best thing the old men ever hoped for themselves, and to be aimless was their worst fear. I have a lot of respect for that view.) When I spoke to my father about the vision he had described to me, my father just nodded and said, “It was the times.” He himself never claimed any such experience, and he seemed to want to assure me I need not fear that the Lord would come to me with His sorrows. And I took comfort in the assurance. That is a remarkable thing to consider. My father was in the Army, too, for about a year, until the war ended. He hated the memory of it and would hardly tolerate the mention of it. So he on his side was angry, at the accusations he knew he could see in his father’s unreposefulness, and also in his endless pillaging. In a spirit of Christian forgiveness very becoming to men of the cloth, and to father and son, they had buried their differences. It must be said, however, that they buried them not very deeply, and perhaps more as one would bank a fire than as one would smother it. They had a particular way of addressing each other when the old bitterness was about to flare up. “Have I offended you in some way, Reverend?” my father would ask. And his father would say, “No, Reverend, you have not offended me in any way at all. Not at all.” And my mother would say, “Now, don’t you two get started.” Once my grandfather took me to Des Moines on the train to see Bud Fowler play. He was with Keokuk for a season or two. The old man fixed me with that eye of his and told me there was not a man on this round earth who could outrun or outthrow Bud Fowler. I was pretty excited. But nothing happened in that game, or so I thought then. No runs, no hits, no errors. In the fifth inning a thunderstorm that had been lying along the horizon the whole afternoon just sort of sauntered over and put a stop to it all. I remember the groan that went up from the crowd when the heavy rain began. I was only about ten years old, and I was relieved, but it was a terrible frustration to my grandfather. One more terrible frustration for the poor old devil. Even my father called him that, and my mother did, too. But he was a fine preacher in the style of his generation, so my father said. That day he had brought a little bag of licorice, which really did surprise me. Whenever he put his fingers into it, it rattled with the trembling of his hand, and the sound was just like the sound of fire. I noticed that at the time, and it seemed natural to me. I also more or less assumed that the thunder and the lightning that day were Creation tipping its hat to him, as if to say, Glad to see you here in the stands, Reverend—or maybe, Why, Reverend, what in this grieving world are you doing here at a sporting event? My mother said once that he attracted terrible friendships—using “terrible” in the old sense, of course, and meaning only respect. When he was young, he was an acquaintance of John Brown, and Jim Lane, too. I read somewhere that a thing that does not exist in relation to anything else cannot itself be said to exist. I can’t quite see the meaning of a statement so purely hypothetical as that, though I may simply lack understanding. But it does remind me of that afternoon when nothing flew through the air, no one slid or drifted or tagged, when there was no waltz at all, so to speak. It seems to me that the storm had to put an end to it, as if it were a fire to be put out, an eruption into this world of an alarming kind of nullity. Null. That word has real power. My grandfather had nowhere to spend his courage, no way to feel it in himself. That was a great pity. As I write I am aware that my memory has made much of very little. There was that old man my grandfather sitting beside me in his ashy coat, trembling just because he did, sharing out the frugal pleasures of his licorice, maybe with Kansas somehow transforming itself from memory to intention in his mind that very afternoon. (It was just Kansas he went back to, not the town where his church used to be. So we were quite a long time finding him.) Bud Fowler stood at second base with his glove on his hip and watched the catcher. I know he liked to play bare-handed, but that is what I remember, and it’s all I ever could remember about him, so there is no point trying to put the memory right. I followed his career in the newspaper for years, until they started up the Negro Leagues, and then I sort of lost track of him. My grandfather was not altogether remarkable in his generation. What lives they had, so enviable, so greatly to be pitied. All his friends could sit on their heels into their old age, and did it by preference, as if they had a grudge against furniture. They had been to Lane and Oberlin, they knew their Hebrew and their Greek, but there wasn’t an ounce of spare flesh on any of them. And they had a look of relentless patience about them, like the primitive church still waiting to judge the angels. Here is a story they used to tell, and chuckle over. I can’t vouch for it entirely, since, talking among themselves the way they did, I doubt they’d have thought embellishing a story was quite the same thing as departing from the truth. In any case, in some forgotten little abolitionist settlement around here—it might as well have been Gilead—as soon as the people had set up a drygoods store on one side of the road and a livery stable on the other they set about building a tunnel between them. Tunnelling was a very popular activity at that time, and a great deal of ingenuity went into devising hiding places and routes of escape. The topsoil in Iowa goes down so deep that more and larger tunnels were possible here than would have been in less favored regions, say, in New England. In this part of the state the soil is also very sandy, of course. Now, these were sensible and well- meaning people. But they became so absorbed in making this tunnel that they lost sight of certain practical considerations. It became a sort of subterranean civic monument. One of the old men said the only thing missing was a chandelier. Very simply, they made it too large, and too near the surface of the ground, and they couldn’t brace it, either, since wood was so scarce on the prairie in those days that the lumber for such buildings as they had was carted in from Minnesota. Even very thoughtful people have lapses of judgment from time to time. When they had just about finished their digging, a stranger on a big black horse came through town. He paused in just the wrong spot to ask the name of the place, and he and his horse sank right through the road into that tunnel. When the dust settled, the horse was standing more or less shoulder deep in a hole. The man climbed up off him and walked around and around him in a kind of wonderment, not drawing any conclusions at all, try as he might. And when the people came out to ponder this calamity, and took note of his bewilderment, they thought it best to be bewildered, too. So they just stood there with their arms folded, saying, “If that’s not the dangedest thing,” or words to that effect, and they discussed among themselves the risks that went with owning such a large horse. The poor thing began to struggle, of course, so somebody got a bucket of oats and poured a couple of bottles of whiskey over them, and the horse ate them and pretty soon it nodded off. Then the mood of the stranger became very desolate, because the horse was not only standing in a hole but was also unconscious. This latter might not have seemed to crown his afflictions the way it did if he had not himself been a teetotaller. As it was, that snoring horse with its head lying there in the road was a spectacle of gloom for which he truly struggled to find words. Now, settlements of that kind were the work of people of high religious principle, and they would have taken no pleasure at all in watching this unoffending stranger tear his beard and throw his hat at the ground. Well of course they took a little pleasure in it. But it did seem best to them to get the fellow out of town as quickly as possible so they could deal with that horse, since any Jayhawker coming up from Missouri or any slave hunter passing through would be liable to interpret the spectacle by the light of his own grudges and suspicions. So one of them offered to trade his horse for the one in the hole. You might think the fellow would have considered this trade advantageous, but in fact he sat on the stoop of the drygoods store and weighed it for some time. The horse he was offered was a mare, smallish, which the stranger did allow was an advantage. He tried to look at her teeth and got nipped and cursed the luck that had brought him to that town, and asked to borrow a shovel so he could dig up his horse. So the preacher told him, solemnly, that they had lost all their shovels in a terrible fire. “We’ve got the blades all right, and you’re welcome to the use of them,” he said. “It’s really just the handles we’re missing.” That was a lie, of course, but it was compelled by the urgency of the situation. Finally the stranger agreed to accept the mare and her saddle and bridle and some odds and ends, twine and boot black, which were meant to restore some part of his faith in cosmic justice. Once rid of him, the people of the settlement could begin to consider the problem of that horse. Excavating around the horse would only open more tunnel, but they decided that they had no other choice. In the meantime, there the horse was, sobering up, nickering and switching its tail. So they decided to lift a shed off what it had for a foundation and set it down over the horse there in the middle of the road. It was a small shed, so it had to be set over the horse at a diagonal, the length of the horse being, in effect, the hypotenuse of two right triangles. All of this seems preposterous. But in fact one lapse of judgment can quickly create a situation in which only foolish choices are possible. Someone noticed that the horse’s tail was lying out on the road, so they had to put a child through the shed window to gather it in. As it happened, there was a young Negro fellow in the settlement at that time, the first fugitive to make his way there. This made the people feel serious and purposeful, and it also heightened their embarrassment about the matter of the horse. The young man, who stayed in the drygoods store unless there was some grounds for alarm, saw and heard everything. And it was pretty obvious how much he wanted to laugh. He was just lolling and languishing with the effort it cost him not to do it. He avoided their eyes, and he bit his lips almost raw. When the shed had been walked down to the road and just as it was being set crosswise over the horse, there came from the store one harsh, painful, unwilled whoop of laughter. It was at that point they bethought themselves of the fact that the fellow might be feeling some justifiable alarm having to do with the question of their good sense. And indeed it was that very night he did escape, so to speak, and headed north on his own, no doubt rightly concluding that so much had happened to make the region suspect that he had best get some distance from it. When they realized what had happened, a couple of the men rode after him on the two fairly serviceable horses that had not been traded for the horse in the hole. They hoped to overtake the fugitive in order to provide him with some food and clothes and direct him to the next abolitionist settlement, but for two days he eluded them. Then, when they had stopped for the night and were just lying down to sleep, he stepped out of the dark and said, “I thank y’all kindly but I think I best do this on my own.” They handed him the bundle they had brought for him and he stepped back into the dark and said, “Y’all get that horse out yet?” and laughed a little and that was the last they heard of him. Well, they did dig a sloping trench they could walk the horse up, so that worked out well enough. But then they had to deal with the fact that a tunnel is a very hard thing to be rid of. They had taken pains, when they were digging it, to scatter the dirt they removed as widely as possible, to conceal the excavation, and there was of course no way to reverse that process. And while they had made the tunnel secretly and at leisure, they were obliged to unmake it openly and in haste. The edges around the hole kept crumbling, falling in, exposing more of it every day. The quickest solution would have been to collapse the tunnel altogether and fill it in from the top, but then the path it made from the store to the stables would have been visible immediately and indefinitely. So they chose a hill to level and began carting earth into the tunnel day and night, having placed a lookout on the roof of the drygoods store to signal the approach of strangers. If asked, they would say they were constructing terraces, as in a certain book the preacher had which illustrated the customs of the Orient. I suppose that was the best they could do in the circumstances. These were very hardworking people, but there is simply no way in the world to pack soil from the side, or in any wise to pack it and settle it as firmly as rain and snow and heat have done in the years since the world began. That is to say, with all their hard work to undo all the hard work they had done, with the first good rain the road sagged from one end of that tunnel to the other. Then they began filling it from the top, having no other choice and nothing at all to lose. And still it sagged as often as there was a good rain. So when the winter finally came and there was a hard freeze and snow, they pried up the few buildings they had and set them on planks and hitched their horses to them and moved the town, such as it was, half a mile down the road. They had to pry up their grave markers to hide where the town had been, and that was a sad thing, though there weren’t more than three or four. The tunnel became a kind of creek bed, a freshet in the spring, with nice grassy banks, and flowers that had run wild from the old gardens. People who didn’t know better would picnic beside it, spreading their blankets and baskets over those poor, forgotten graves, which was, on balance, a pleasant thing. Your mother is very respectful of my hours up here in the study. She’s proud of my books. She was the one who actually called my attention to the number of boxes I have filled with my sermons and my prayers. Say fifty sermons a year for forty-five years, not counting funerals and so on, of which there have been a great many. Two thousand two hundred and fifty. If they average thirty pages, that’s sixty-seven thousand five hundred pages. Can that be right? I guess it is. Say three hundred pages make a volume. Then I’ve written two hundred and twenty-five books, which puts me up there with Augustine and Calvin, for quantity. That’s amazing. I wrote almost all of it in the deepest hope and conviction. Sifting my thoughts and choosing my words. Trying to say what was true. And I’ll tell you frankly, that was wonderful. Writing has always felt to me like praying, even when I wasn’t writing prayers, as I was, often enough. This morning I saw a bubble float past my window, fat and wobbly and ripening toward that dragonfly blue they turn just before they burst. So I looked down at the yard and there you were, you and your mother, blowing bubbles at the cat, such a barrage of them that the poor beast was beside herself at the glut of opportunity. She was actually leaping in the air, our insouciant Soapy! Some of the bubbles drifted up through the branches, even above the trees. You two were too intent on the cat to see the celestial consequences of your worldly endeavors. They were very lovely. Your mother was wearing her blue dress and you were wearing your red shirt and you were kneeling on the ground together with Soapy between and that effulgence of bubbles rising, and so much laughter. Ah, this life, this world. I had a dream once that I was down at the river looking around in the shallows for something or other—when I was a boy it would have been tadpoles—and my grandfather stalked out of the trees in that furious way he had, scooped his hat full of water and threw it, so a sheet of water came sailing toward me, billowing in the air like a veil, and fell down over me. Then he put his hat back on his head and stalked off into the trees again and left me standing there in that glistening river, amazed at myself and shining like an apostle. I’ll tell you, if my grandfather did throw his mantle over me, so to speak, he did it long before I came into this world. The holiness of his life imputed a holiness to mine, or to my vocation, that I have tried to diminish as little as I could. Still, he was difficult. When he took off west, he left an old army blanket at my father’s house, a bundle rolled up and tied with twine. Perhaps it was too precious to discard and too awkward to take along. But perhaps it was meant as a last, unanswerable rebuke. In any case, when we learned he’d died out there in Kansas we opened it. There were some old shirts that had been white once, and a few dozen sermons and some other papers wrapped with twine, and a pistol. Of course it was the pistol that interested me most. It was big and old, with ornaments on the handle sort of like you see on cast-iron radiators. But my father was disgusted. These things my grandfather had left were an offense to him. So he buried them. Then a month or so later he dug the gun back up and threw it in the river. If he had left it in the ground it would be just about under the back fence, maybe a foot or two beyond it. But he dug it up and set it on a stump and broke it the best he could with a maul he had borrowed and tied it up in a piece of burlap. He and I walked to the river, a good way downstream from where we usually went to fish, and he flung the pieces of it as far as he could into the water. I was twelve years old when my father took me with him to find my grandfather’s grave. At that time my family had been living in Gilead about ten years, my father serving the church here. Then the old man ran off to become a sort of itinerant preacher, or so we believed. He had died in Kansas and was buried there, near a town that had pretty well lost its people. A drought had driven most of them away, those who had not already left for towns closer to the railroad. Well, we got lost out there, and we wandered for a good many days. It was one night when we were sleeping in the loft of a barn someone had abandoned, and some owls woke us up with their cavilling, that my father told me a story from his childhood, of being awakened by sounds in the night and walking outside to see old John Brown’s mule coming out through the doors of his father’s church, being coaxed down those wooden steps in the dark of the moon. He heard the noise of balking and a sad, grave voice saying, “Doing fine, now. Doing just fine.” Then four horses after it, abrupt and agile, all with their saddles already cinched on. The men mounted, two men on one horse leading the other horse along behind them—one of the men was wounded and had to be held—and they rode away without a word. Then in a few minutes he heard the barn door open and he heard their horse breathing and stepping and his father speaking to it, and then his father rode away, too. My father said he went up to the church and sat there in the dark, wondering what he should do. He wasn’t even ten years old at the time. He said the church smelled like horses and gunpowder and it smelled like sweat. (In those days they didn’t have bullets like the ones we have, so they’d have been using the time to load up their weapons with powder and shot.) Old John Brown and his men had pushed the benches and the communion table against the walls to make room for the animals. No doubt they’d slept on the benches. Certainly the wounded man had, because there was a good deal of blood on one of them, and on the floor beside it. That was the first thing my father saw when the light began to come. So he dragged that bench out behind the church and stood it on its end, so it would fall into the deep grass on its side. That was to trouble the surface of the grass as little as possible. Then he took a shovel and a broom and cleaned up after the horses as well as he could. He got a bucket of water and a piece of soap to scrub down the bloodstain, but that just made it bigger. So he ended up sloshing water over the whole floor to make that spot less conspicuous. His thought was that if the men who slept in the church were being pursued, their pursuers might come at any time and they would be looking for things like mule droppings in a church or blood on a pew. But those same pursuers would surely be curious to find him scrubbing out a church before the sun was well up. Then it occurred to him how unlike his father it was to leave at such a time, making no arrangements whatever for putting things right, leaving him to wander from his bed into this ridiculous situation, in which it seemed there was no right thing to be done. He was thinking these things and lugging a bucket of water up into the church when he saw a man in a U.S. Army uniform sitting on a bench against the wall. “You’ve got it looking right nice in here,” the soldier said. Then he plucked at the ripped knee of his trousers and said, “My dang horse bolted on me. An owl hooted or something, and off she went. You folks wouldn’t have a horse I could requisition. It would only be for a day or two.” “You’d have to speak to my father.” The soldier said, “Your father isn’t here. I’d guess he’s ridden off somewhere on the very horse I was hoping to borrow.” Then he said, “You heard of Osawatomie John Brown? Of course you have. Everybody has. I can see you’re a fine boy. Don’t worry, I’m not going to make you go telling lies right here in a church, little brother. You know the kinds of things John Brown has been up to.” People did sometimes speak, quietly, about the events at Osawatomie. They insisted Old Brown was nowhere near the place when it happened. Or they pointed out that the Missourians had attacked him first and killed his son and his friends. Not that even this justified vengefulness in a Christian man, they would say, though clearly they felt it came very, very close. Still, it was a sombre thing, a fearful thing. My father told the soldier that he had heard stories. The soldier nodded. “There are decent folks around here who’d help him any chance they got. Ministers of the Gospel. They’d let him bring his old mule right into their church if he asked them to. They’d deem it an honor. I find that remarkable. Those fugitives would come in with their weapons and their wounds and their dirty boots, they’d come in bleeding on the floor, and that would be just fine. Then a soldier of the United States government comes along looking for them, as he is paid to do, and nobody even offers him a cup of coffee.” My father said, “We might have coffee. I’m pretty sure we do.” The soldier stood up. He said, “My platoon left me about two miles from here and took off east. They knew where those fellows would likely be off to next. So if your father’s gone with them, he might be seeing a world of trouble right about now. I thought I should tell you that before I drank your coffee.” My father told me that his lips were so numb he couldn’t move them to speak. The soldier said, “I’ll just get myself a drink at your well.” He walked out of the church and got his drink and walked away up the road. And my grandfather shot a soldier that very afternoon. “It was the fellow I spoke with in the church,” my father said. “I know it was.” The soldier had walked to the next farm and requisitioned their horse and taken off in the general direction he thought his platoon had gone. Brown and the others had circled back and to the south, knowing they would be followed and making for the hills. And my grandfather was ambling along toward home with that big gun in his belt and two bloody shirts under his arm, one with bullet holes in it, which was very foolish. And he was bare-chested under his coat, since he had swapped his own shirt for the two he brought back with him. But he was never really a practical man again after that day, my father said. I would not have known where to find the origins of the old man’s impracticality, but I am certainly willing to vouch for the fact of it. In any case, a lone soldier did approach him and did hail him down, and he was indeed riding a chestnut horse that could have been the neighbor’s. The soldier began to question him, and my grandfather was caught without a lie. But he had that gun, and the gun was loaded. The old man only told my father what had happened because my father told him about finding the soldier in the church. “Dark fellow, you say? Kind of a drawl to his speech? Well, I did, I winged him,” my grandfather said. “Then his horse bolted. He took quite a spill.” My grandfather left him there on the ground. “Old Brown asked if I’d be willing to cover their retreat if occasion arose. I said I would, and I did.” He said, “What was I to do with him, bring him back here?” His point was that the congregation had put a lot of thought and effort into hollow walls and hidden cellars in their various cabins and outbuildings, tunnels that started from false-bottomed potato bins and opened up under haystacks a hundred yards away and so forth. There was a false-bottomed coffin they kept in the church, and an open grave with a floor of burlap stretched over a couple of boards and covered with dirt, opening on a tunnel that came up in the woodshed. All that effort was for freeing the captives, and it had to be protected for their sake. The soldier could only have concluded that my grandfather was in serious cahoots with John Brown, and attention of that kind could destroy everything. He told my father that it was a mortally serious business, life and death. He should never speak a word about it to anyone, and he should be ready with a lie in case someone came inquiring. So, waking and sleeping, my father thought about that soldier by himself out there on the plains, wounded, without a shadow to hide in or a drop to drink, and tried to imagine himself saying he had not seen such a man, had not spoken to him. Well, the authorities never did come to talk to them about that soldier, so my father thought he probably had died out there. He said, “The relief I suffered every day they didn’t come was horrible.” After that my grandfather would be gone for days sometimes. There were Sundays when he would ride his horse right up to the church steps just when it was time for service to begin and fire that gun in the air to let the people know he was back. They’d find him standing in the pulpit, with his eyes red and his face pale and dust in his beard, hands trembling, all ready to preach on judgment and grace. My father said, “I never dared to ask him what he’d been up to. I couldn’t risk the possibility of knowing things that were worse than my suspicions.” You see, my grandfather would sometimes preach wearing one of those shirts. The Sunday after old John Brown was hanged, he wore the one with the bullet holes in it. He preached on the new wound that had been made in the Lord’s side, and all the people wept. He preached the young men right into that war. Many of them never came back, and, of the ones that did, some brought camp fever, and their families went down with it. My father said there were so many fresh graves the cemetery smelled like a plowed field. The widows and orphans drifted away over the years, and the Methodists bought the land and burned the church down because it was past saving. It was not long after the trip my grandfather and I took to Des Moines, to the baseball game, that we lost him, or he lost himself. One Sunday a few weeks later, the old man, who always went to church with us, stood up and walked out about five minutes into my father’s sermon. The text, I remember, was “Consider the lilies, how they grow.” My mother sent me to look for him. I saw him walking down the road and I ran to catch up with him, but he turned that eye on me and said, “Get back where you belong!” So I did. He appeared at the house again after dinner. He walked into the kitchen, where my mother and I were clearing things away, and cut himself a piece of bread and was about to leave again without a single word to us. But my father came up the porch steps just then and stood in the doorway, watching him. “Reverend,” my grandfather said when he saw him. My father said, “Reverend.” My mother said, “It’s Sunday. It’s the Lord’s Day. It’s the Sabbath.” My father said, “We are all well aware of that.” But he didn’t step out of the doorway. So she said to my grandfather, “Sit down and I’ll fix a plate for you. You can’t get by on a piece of bread.” And he did sit down. So my father came in and sat down across from him. They were silent for some time. Then my father said, “Did my sermon offend you in some way? Those few words you heard of it?” The old man shrugged. “Nothing in it to offend. I just wanted to hear some preaching. So I went over to the Negro church.” After a minute my father asked, “Well, did you hear some preaching?” My grandfather shrugged. “The text was ‘Love your enemies.’ ” “That seems to me to be an excellent text in the circumstances,” my father said. (This was just after somebody set a fire behind the Negro church. It wasn’t a big fire—someone heaped brush against the back wall and put a match to it, and someone else saw the smoke and put the flames out with a shovel. That church sold up some years ago, and what was left of the congregation moved to Chicago. By then it was down to three or four families. The pastor came by with a sack of plants he’d dug up from around the front steps, mainly lilies. He thought I might want them, and they’re still there along the front of our church, needing to be thinned. I didn’t know the Negro pastor well myself, but he said his father knew my grandfather. He told me they were sorry to leave, because this town had once meant a great deal to them.) The old man said, “It was all very Christian.” My father said, “You sound disappointed, Reverend.” My grandfather put his head in his hands. He said, “Reverend, no words could be bitter enough, no day could be long enough. There is just no end to it. Disappointment. I eat and drink it. I wake and sleep it.” My father’s lips were white. He said, “Well, Reverend, I know you placed great hope in that war. My hopes are in peace, and I am not disappointed. Because peace is its own reward. Peace is its own justification.” My grandfather said, “And that’s just what kills my heart, Reverend. That the Lord never came to you. That the seraphim never touched a coal to your lips—” My father stood up from his chair. He said, “I remember when you walked to the pulpit in that shot-up, bloody shirt with that pistol in your belt. And I had a thought as powerful and clear as any revelation. And it was, This has nothing to do with Jesus. Nothing. Nothing. And I was, and I am, as certain of that as anyone could ever be of any so-called vision. I defer to no one in this. Not to you, not to Paul the Apostle, not to John the Divine. Reverend.” My grandfather said, “So-called vision. The Lord, standing there beside me, had one hundred times the reality for me that you have standing here now!” After a minute my father said, “No one would doubt that, Reverend.” It was clear from the look in that eye of his that the old man took his meaning. And that was when the chasm truly opened. Not long afterward my grandfather was gone. He left a note lying on the kitchen table which said: No good has come, no evil is ended. That is your peace. Without vision the people perish. The Lord bless you and keep you. I still have that note. I saved it in my Bible. I believe that the old man did have far too narrow an idea of what a vision might be. Perhaps that is the one thing I wish to tell you. Sometimes the visionary aspect of any particular day comes to you in the memory of it, or it opens to you over time. For example, whenever I take a child into my arms to be baptized, I am, so to speak, comprehended in the experience more fully, having seen more of life, knowing better what it means to affirm the sacredness of the human creature. I believe there are visions that come to us only in memory, in retrospect, or in imagination, and it is waste and ingratitude not to honor such things as visions, whether you yourself happen to have seen them or not. I mentioned that I went out to Kansas with my father to find my grandfather’s grave. It took my father months to find out where the old man had ended up, lots of letters of inquiry to churches and newspapers and so on. He put a great deal of effort into it. Finally someone wrote back and sent a little package with my grandfather’s watch and a beat-up old Bible and some letters, which I learned later were just a few of my father’s letters of inquiry, no doubt given to the old man by people who thought they had induced him to come home. It grieved my father bitterly that the last words he said to his father were very angry words, and there could never be any reconciliation between them in this life. He did truly honor his father, generally speaking, and it was hard for him to accept that things should have ended the way they did. That was in 1892, so travel was still pretty hard. We went as far as we could by train. Then we took some bad directions and got lost. The roads were terrible, swamped in dust where they were travelled and baked into ruts where they were not. My father was carrying some tools in a gunnysack so he could try to put the grave to rights a little, and I was carrying what we had for food, hardtack and jerky and the few little yellow apples we picked up along the road here and there, and our changes of shirts and socks, all soon filthy. My father was set on finding that grave despite any hardship. Never before in my life had I wondered where I would come by my next drink of water, and I number it among my blessings that I have not had occasion to wonder since. Once, to make the point that I should study while I was young and learning came easily, my grandfather had told me about a man he knew when he first came to Kansas, a preacher newly settled there. He said, “That fellow just was not confident of his Hebrew. He’d walk fifteen miles across open country in the dead of winter to settle a point of interpretation. We’d have to thaw him out before he could tell us what it was he had on his mind.” My father laughed, and said, “The strange part is, that may even be true.” But I remembered the story at the time because it seemed to me that my father and I were doing something very similar. There were times when I truly believed we might just wander off and die. Once when my father was gathering sticks for firewood into my arms he said we were like Abraham and Isaac on the way to Mt. Moriah. I’d thought as much myself. It was so bad out there we couldn’t buy food. We stopped at a farmstead and asked the lady, and she took a little bundle down from a cupboard and showed us some coins and bills and said, “It might as well be Confederate for all the good it does me.” Then my father asked after his father, and she said, Why, yes, he’d been in the neighborhood. She didn’t know he had died but she knew where he was likely to have been buried, and she showed us to what remained of a road that would take us right to the place, not three miles from where we stood. The road was overgrown, but as you walked along you could see the ruts. The brush grew lower in them, because the earth was still packed so hard. We walked past that graveyard twice. The two or three headstones in it had fallen over and it was all grown up with weeds and grass. The third time, my father noticed a fence post, so we walked over to it, and we could see a handful of graves, a row of maybe seven or eight and below it a half row, swamped with that dead brown grass. I remember that the incompleteness of it seemed sad to me. In the second row we found a marker someone had made by stripping a patch of bark off a log and then driving nails partway in and bending them down flat so they made the letters rev ames. The R looked like the A and the S was a backward Z, but there was no mistaking it. It was evening by then, so we walked back to the lady’s farm and washed at her cistern and drank from her well and slept in her hayloft. She brought us a supper of cornmeal mush. I loved that woman like a second mother. I loved her to the point of tears. We were up before daylight to milk and cut kindling and draw her a bucket of water, and she met us at the door with a breakfast of fried mush with blackberry preserves melted over it and a spoonful of top milk on it, and we ate standing there at the stoop in the chill and the dark and it was perfectly wonderful. Then we went back to the graveyard, which was just a patch of ground with a half-fallen fence around it and a gate on a chain weighted with a cowbell. My father and I fixed up the fence as well as we could. He broke up the ground on the grave a little with his jackknife. But then he decided we should go back to the farmhouse again to borrow a couple of hoes and make a better job of it. He said, “We might as well look after these other folks, while we’re here.” This time the lady had a dinner of navy beans waiting for us. I don’t remember her name, which seems a pity. She had an index finger that was off at the first knuckle. My father said she spoke as if her people might be from Maine, but he didn’t ask her. She cried when we said goodbye to her, and wiped her face with her apron. My father asked if there was a letter or a message she would like us to carry back with us, and she said no. He asked if she would like to come along, and she thanked us and shook her head and said, “There’s the cow.” She said, “We’ll be just fine when the rain comes.” That graveyard was about the loneliest place you could imagine. If I were to say it was going back to nature, you might get the idea that there was some sort of vitality about the place. But it was parched and sunstricken. It was hard to imagine the grass had ever been green. Everywhere you stepped little grasshoppers would fly up by the score, making that snap they do, like striking a match. My father put his hands in his pockets and looked around and shook his head. Then he started cutting the brush back with a hand scythe he had brought, and we set up the markers that had fallen over—most of the graves were just outlined with stones, with no names or dates or anything on them at all. My father said to be careful where I stepped. There were small graves here and there that I hadn’t noticed at first, or I hadn’t quite realized what they were. I certainly didn’t want to walk on them, but until he cut the weeds down I couldn’t tell where they were, and then I knew I had stepped on some of them, and I felt sick. Only in childhood have I felt guilt like that, and pity. I still dream about it. My father always said when someone dies the body is just a suit of old clothes the spirit doesn’t want anymore. But there we were, half killing ourselves to find a grave, and as cautious as we could be about where we put our feet. We worked a good while at putting things to rights. It was hot, and there was such a sound of grasshoppers, and of wind rattling that dry grass. Then we scattered seeds around, bee balm and coneflower and sunflower and bachelor’s buttons and sweet pea. They were seeds we always saved out of our own garden. When we finished, my father sat down on the ground beside his father’s grave. He stayed there for a good while, plucking at little whiskers of straw that still remained on it, fanning himself with his hat. I think he regretted that there was nothing more for him to do. Finally he got up and brushed himself off and we stood there together with our miserable clothes all damp and our hands all dirty from the work, and the first crickets rasping and the flies really beginning to bother and the birds crying out the way they do when they’re about ready to settle for the night, and my father bowed his head and began to pray, remembering his father to the Lord. I missed my grandfather mightily, and I felt the need of pardon, too. But that was a very long prayer. Every prayer seemed long to me at that age, and I was truly bone tired. I tried to keep my eyes closed, but after a while I had to look around a little. And this is something I remember very well. At first I thought I saw the sun setting in the east. I knew where east was, because the sun was just over the horizon when we got there that morning. Then I realized that what I saw was a full moon rising just as the sun was going down. Each of them was standing on its edge, with the most wonderful light between them. It seemed as if you could touch it, as if there were palpable currents of light passing back and forth, or as if there were great taut skeins of light suspended between them. I wanted my father to see it, but I knew I’d have to startle him out of his prayer, and I wanted to do it the best way, so I took his hand and kissed it. And I said, “Look at the moon.” And he did. We just stood there until the sun was down and the moon was up. They seemed to float on the horizon for quite a long time, I suppose because they were both so bright you couldn’t get a clear look at them. And that grave, and my father and I, were exactly between them, which seemed amazing to me then, since I hadn’t given much thought to the nature of the horizon. When my father and I were walking along the road in the quiet and the moonlight, away from the graveyard where we’d found the old man, my father said, “You know, everybody in Kansas saw the same thing we saw.” At the time (remember I was twelve) I took him to mean the entire state was a witness to our miracle. I thought that whole state could vouch for the particular blessing my father brought down by praying there at his father’s grave, or the glory that my grandfather had somehow emanated out of his parched repose. Later I realized my father would have meant that the sun and moon had aligned themselves as they did with no special reference to the two of us. He never encouraged any talk about visions or miracles, except the ones in the Bible. I can’t tell you, though, how I felt, walking along beside him that night, along that rutted road, through that empty world—what a sweet strength I felt, in him, and in myself, and all around us. I am glad I didn’t understand, because I have rarely felt joy like that, and assurance. It was like one of those dreams where you’re filled with some extravagant feeling you might never have in life, it doesn’t matter what it is, even guilt or dread, and you learn from it what an amazing instrument you are, so to speak, what a power you have to experience beyond anything you might ever actually need. Who would have thought that the moon could dazzle and flame like that? Despite what he’d said, I could see that my father was a little shaken. He had to stop and wipe his eyes. Still, even then I could not pray to abide in that great unconsuming fire, that everlasting Pentecost, that fiery furnace in which the old John Ames walked so many years. It shames me to say it—my courage fails when I try to pray that you might abide in it. It has seemed to me sometimes as though the Lord breathes on this poor gray ember of creation and it turns to radiance—for a moment or a year or the span of a life. And then it sinks back into itself again, and to look at it no one would know it had anything to do with fire, or light. I love the prairie! So often I have seen the dawn come and the light flood over the land and everything turn radiant at once, that word “good” so profoundly affirmed in my soul that I am amazed I should be allowed to witness such a thing. There may have been a more wonderful first moment “when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy,” but for all I know to the contrary they still do sing and shout, and they certainly might well. I can’t help imagining that you will leave Gilead sooner or later. It’s fine if you have done that, or you intend to do it. These little towns meant so much once. Now they do look like whatever hope becomes after it begins to weary a little, then weary a little more. But hope deferred is still hope. I love this town. I think sometimes of going into the ground here as a last wild gesture of love—perhaps I, too, will smolder away the time until a great and general incandescence. I will pray that you might be overcome with a beautiful courage, as I never was. And then I’ll pray that the Lord might pity and forgive you for it. I’ll pray, and then I’ll sleep. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Mother’s Son	Someone told Christine that Alan Armstrong was going to get married again: the new girl was apparently half his age. Christine didn’t think she cared. She rarely spoke to Alan these days; there was no need for them to consult each other over arrangements for their son, now that Thomas was grown up and made his own arrangements. In fact, after the person told her the news, at a dinner party, Christine forgot it almost at once amid the noisy laughter and conversation, and remembered it again only the following afternoon, when she was sitting at home, writing. She was making notes for a lecture on women novelists and modernism; books by Rhys and Woolf and Bowen were piled all around her, some of them open face down on the table, some of them bristling with torn bits of paper as bookmarks. When she suddenly remembered the news about Alan, she lifted her mind from its entanglement in the Paris and Ireland of the twenties and stared around in surprise at her real living room in London: tall and white and spacious, with thriving houseplants and, filling the wall at one end, a floor-to-ceiling arched window. The rooms of the flat, where Christine lived alone, were all small—bedroom, bathroom, kitchen—apart from this big one, the centerpiece. Here she worked at a long cherrywood table; when she entertained, she pushed all her books and papers to one end and laid places at the other. It was March. Outside the window a bank of dark slate-gray cloud had been piled up by the wind against a lakelike area of silvery-lemon sky, smooth and translucent; the alterations in the light flowed fast, like changing expressions, across the stone housefronts opposite. Christine’s flat was on the second floor; the house was one in a row of houses, all with the same phenomenal window and cold north light, built as artists’ studios in the eighteen-nineties. Some had been renovated and cost the earth, like hers; others were still dilapidated, bohemian, mysterious, the windows draped with rags of patchwork and lace curtains or satin bedspreads. Inside the room, the weather and the light were always intimately present; there were long white curtains at the window, but she didn’t close them very often. Instead of shutting the drama out, they suggested too eloquently immense presences on the other side. It had been difficult to choose paintings for the walls; in the end Christine had hung a couple of prints of Mondrian drawings. Nothing else had seemed quite still enough. Just as she remembered about Alan, her doorbell rang. She padded in her stocking feet to the intercom. “Mum? It’s Thomas.” She made them both coffee and knew that her hands—measuring out the grounds, taking down the mugs—were hasty. Not trembling; that would be too silly for someone as competently independent as she was. But hasty at least in her pleasure at his visit, her eagerness to get back to where her son, her only child, was sprawled waiting for her in the low-slung white armchair in front of the window. She put milk and sugar on the tray; she was glad she had bought a packet of expensive chocolate biscuits. She found an ashtray: no one else was allowed to smoke in her flat. Thomas always for some reason chose that armchair, and then leaned his head back against the headrest so that the ridiculous length of him (he was six feet four) stretched out horizontally, almost as if he were lying flat; he would cross his ankles and squint frowningly at his shoes. Today he was wearing his disintegrating old trainers, not the brogues he’d bought for work; his unironed khaki shirt was half in and half out of his trousers. Christine, who hated uniforms, was almost ashamed at how handsome she found him in his obligatory work suit and tie, but she also loved him restored to his crumpled, worn-out old clothes, youth and beauty glowing steadily through them. Thomas was odd-looking, with a crooked nose and a big loose mouth, but she knew she wasn’t the only one who found him beautiful. His tawny hair, pushed behind his ears, was curling at the shoulders, because he hadn’t bothered to get it cut; his skin flared sensitively where the raw planes of his face had only recently overgrown their childish softness. From under his heavy lids, the green eyes flecked with hazel sent a lazy appealing glance, like Alan’s. If she thought of Alan at all these days (she hadn’t seen him more than five or six times in the past twenty years), it was only when Thomas’s likeness to him took her by surprise. “So I hear your father’s getting married again.” “Who told you?” There was a flicker of solicitousness in his expression, in case she minded. “Someone who knows Laura. Poor Laura.” Laura had been Alan’s first wife, the one he was married to all through his affair with Christine, those long years ago. Laura had always made Thomas welcome in her home, even after Alan strayed a second time, and then a third, and then stayed away permanently. Thomas was close to his half brothers and sisters, and managed gracefully a whole complex of loyalties. “Oh, I think Laura’s O.K.,” Thomas said. “I think she’s pretty indifferent these days to what Dad’s up to.” This wasn’t what the person at the dinner party had told Christine. “I hear the girl he’s marrying is young enough to be his daughter.” Thomas couldn’t help his grin: spreading, conspiratorial. He was easily entertained. “You know what he’s like.” “Have you met her?” “She’s O.K. I reckon she knows what she’s getting into. Put it this way—I don’t think it was her intellectual qualities he fell for. I thought that you might be at college today,” he added. “I only came here on the off-chance.” “Thursdays I usually work at home. Why aren’t you in the office?” “I phoned and told them I was ill. I haven’t pulled a sickie for ages. I’ve got a lot of stuff going around in my head and I wanted some time out to really think about it. And I thought I might stop by to have a bit of a chat about something that’s cropped up.” Christine was touched: he rarely came to her to talk about his problems. In fact, there had been almost no problems. He was an affable, sociable boy whose directness was of the easy and not the exacting kind. Thomas heaved himself upright in the chair, so that his knees were jackknifed up in front of his face; he stirred two spoons of sugar into his coffee and ate chocolate biscuits. “Is it about your dad and this wedding?” “God, no. That honestly isn’t a big deal. I’m glad for him.” “Work?” He made a face. “And other stuff.” Thomas had finished at Oxford the year before and had been working as an assistant to a Labour M.P., a woman, no one very special. All he did was photocopy and file and send standard answers to constituents’ letters, but the idea was that this could lead to bigger and better things, some kind of political career. It was only an idea, being tested. Thomas didn’t know whether a political career was what he really wanted. Christine thought he might be too finely constituted, too conscientious for it. On the other hand, she was proud of his realism, and that he was thinking unsentimentally about ways to get power and change things. “I’ve got myself in a bit of a mess,” Thomas said. “With Anna.” “Oh?” He fished his tobacco and rolling papers out of a pocket and used the flat tops of his knees as a table. “I seem to have got involved with somebody else.” “Oh, Thomas.” He told her about a girl he had met at work. He said that he hadn’t liked her at first—he’d thought she was too full of herself. But then they’d had to work on some assignment together and he’d got to know her a lot better. He could talk to her like he’d never talked to anyone else. She was very bright. She wasn’t good-looking in the way that Anna was good-looking. “She’s quite big,” he said. “Not fat. Curvy. With this sort of messy black hair. Long.” Thomas’s own hair was hanging down across his face as he rolled his cigarette, so Christine couldn’t see his expression. She could hear, though, his voice thick with an excitement that she recognized as belonging to the first phase of infatuation, when even speaking about your lover, saying ordinary things about him or her, is a form of desire. “The worst thing is,” he said, shaking his hair back and looking frankly at her. “Well, not the worst thing. But they both have the same name. Not quite the same. She’s called Annie.” Christine couldn’t help a puff of laughter. “I know,” he said. “Shite, isn’t it?” He laughed with her. “The two Anns.” “Have you told Anna?” He shook his head. “I thought at first it was just, you know, nothing. Not worth upsetting her about.” “But it’s something?” He shrugged and opened his hands in a gesture of defenselessness, squinting in the smoke from the roll-up that wagged in his mouth. How was he to know? Nothing like this had ever happened to him before. Christine felt protective of Anna, although she had sometimes thought her too sweet and dull for Thomas. How clearly she could imagine this new girl: less pretty, overweight, clever, treacherous. These were all the things that she herself had been; she was on her guard at once, as if against a rival. “She’s different,” he said. “She’s funny—she makes me laugh. She doesn’t take everything too seriously.” “And how do you feel about deceiving Anna?” He gulped his coffee. She saw him flooded with shame then, not able to trust himself to speak: an unpracticed liar. “These things happen,” she soothed. “We can’t pretend they don’t. Even if we were good, if we were perfectly and completely chaste, we can’t control what happens in our imagination. So being good might only be another kind of lie.” When Christine had begun her affair with Alan, there had been a possibility of his leaving his wife and family. For a while, in fact, he had left, and they had lived together. Thomas was conceived during that time. It had not worked out, they had fought horribly, and Alan had been sick with missing his children. In the end, he had taken himself home. Such storms, such storms there had been in Christine’s life then—with Alan, and with others, afterward. When she longed for her youth, those storms, and not the happy times, were what she missed. The excitement of upheaval, a universe open with possibility, the phone calls that changed everything, the conspiratorial consultations with girlfriends, the feverish packing for surprise trips, escaping out of the last thing or rushing to embrace the next. Perhaps Thomas remembered some of those adventures, too: late-night train journeys when he had sat beside her with big sleepless eyes, sucking at his pacifier, fingering the precious corner of his blanket, his little red suitcase packed with books and toys. Later, once he was established at school, she had settled into a steadier routine for his sake. But perhaps now, when he had found himself infatuated and intoxicated and behaving badly, at some level of consciousness he’d recognized it as her terrain and come to her because he thought she would know what he should do next. Perhaps his coming to her with his own crisis was a kind of forgiveness, for those upheavals. “What about work?” she said. Thomas looked at her vaguely. Work seemed, of course, a mere straw, in relation to the great conflagration of his passionate life. “You said there were work issues as well that you were worried about.” “Only the old question. I mean, here I am stuffing envelopes for an M.P. who voted for the war in Iraq. Should I stay inside the tent pissing out? Perhaps it would be more dignified to get out and do some pissing in.” “Dignified pissing.” “But we’ve been over all that so many times.” “Only now it’s complicated because she’s there at work? Annie.” “It would solve everything if I just took off and went to live by myself in Prague or somewhere. Budapest.” “Leave both of them, you mean?” Christine said. “Woman trouble.” She sighed, making a joke of it. She was suddenly quite sure that he would, in fact, move abroad for a while, even though he didn’t yet know it himself and it had popped into his conversation only as a joke possibility. After much confabulation and self-interrogation and any number of painful scenes with his two girls, this was what he would do. “I’d miss you if you moved to Prague,” she said. “Get a sabbatical. Come out and stay.” She loved having him near her in London. But as soon as she had imagined Prague she knew that it was what she wanted for him: something more than the slick game of opportunity and advancement, a broader and deeper initiation into old sophisticated Europe, into a grownup life with complications. “I have to go,” Thomas said. He had looked at his watch three or four times in the last fifteen minutes. “You’re meeting Annie?” “No,” he lied. Though he had made his confession to Christine, she wasn’t even in her thoughts to follow him to wherever he was meeting his big, dark, clever girl. She was only his mother, after all. It might be Anna’s night for Pilates or whatever it was she did. The lovers might have the whole evening ahead of them, after Annie had finished work, to sit in a hidden corner in a pub somewhere, crushing out cigarettes half smoked, going over and over the same broken bits of logic, pressing knees against knees under the table, getting excitedly drunker. Or to go back to her place. All that stuff. By the time Thomas left, the sky outside Christine’s window had changed again: the bank of gray-black cloud had broken up and swallowed the lemon lake; now tousled scraps of cloud were tumbling untidily in a brooding light. Christine had another hour to work before she finished for the day and showered and changed; she was meeting a friend for a film—a Bergman screening at the British Film Institute—and a late supper. She picked up her copy of “Good Morning, Midnight.” Her name was on the flyleaf: Christine Logan, Girton College, 1971. She was certain that she had held this same copy in her hands the morning of the day that Thomas was born, in 1980—not his birthday but the day before, since he wasn’t actually born until half past midnight. She had been working on her thesis then, typing up a new chapter to show her supervisor, checking every quotation carefully against her text, when she felt the first pain. The first pain—the first sign she’d had that Thomas was coming, two weeks before his time—had been like a sharp tiny bell struck as a signal; feeling it had been more like hearing something, a very precise high note, from deep inside her swollen abdomen, which was pressed with some difficulty into the space between her chair and the little rickety desk she worked at. None of the other things that the midwives at the hospital had warned her to expect had happened—the show of bloody mucus or the waters breaking—only this little bell of pain, so small it was more pleasurable than unpleasant, zinging away from time to time inside her. She knew that she was supposed to delay going into the hospital for as long as she could, so she continued typing, her mind seeming to move at a pitch of high, free clarity between the words of the novel and her own extraordinary circumstance. All this went on in the sitting room of the little cottage she rented from Jesus College in those days, in the Kite in Cambridge. The cottage was gone now; it had been pulled down to make way for a new development. Once, while she waited, she had got up from the desk and stared at her face in a tarnished old junk-shop mirror she kept propped up on the mantelpiece for the sake of its frame. She thought that only fifty years before, at the time when the Rhys novel was set, she might have stared at herself like this on the brink of the unknown ordeal and been justified in wondering whether she would survive it. In the novel, Sasha’s baby died. Christine was not afraid, exactly, but she could not imagine what lay in wait for her on the far side of the hours to come. When she was at the hospital, for her antenatal appointments, she had sometimes passed new mothers walking out to a waiting car or a taxi, followed by nurses carrying their babies bundled in white shawls. She didn’t have friends with babies; she didn’t know what it would mean, to be responsible for a white-wrapped bundle of her own. She had picked up the telephone once or twice to call Alan but cut herself off before she even finished dialling. Although the plan had always been for him to be there with her at the birth of their child, for the first time the idea of his large presence bothered her: he was a big tall man with a booming voice and a curling salt-and-pepper beard, a historian, a Marxist. I can manage this by myself, she had thought that morning, timing the little bells of pain, which began to ring louder and stronger. It was as if she had intuited with the first pang of Thomas’s arrival, and quite rightly, that her delighted possession of her son would push apart whatever mechanism it was that had bound her to his father for those years of her youth. Christine’s thesis was on certain women writers of the early twentieth century. She had argued that in their novels and stories they had broken with the conventions deep-buried in the foundations of the fiction tradition: that all good stories end in marriage, and that the essential drive in plot is courtship, bringing men and women together. Katherine Mansfield’s femmes seules and Woolf’s solitaries represented a break that was at least as revolutionary, surely, as Lawrence’s and Joyce’s iconoclasm. In the late seventies, the automatic gesture of obeisance to feminism had not yet been internalized by academics, and an amused hostility was still the norm. Alan wouldn’t read Christine’s work then: he said once that he took no interest in the nuances of bourgeois ladies’ hypersensibility. She had tolerated this attitude, at least at first; she had even been attracted by it, as if in his contemptuous maleness he were a huge handsome bear whose ferocity she had to take on, and tame, and teach. When Thomas was four or five years old, he had asked her once if he was going to die. She wasn’t sure where this exchange had taken place—on a beach, perhaps, although not on a summer day. She associated it vaguely with a windy walk across pale pebbles that were awkward underfoot, along the sea’s rim of crisp-dried detritus: seaweed, plastic netting, bird bones. Perhaps it was on one of their trips to the Norfolk coast with Alan when he and she were still seeing each other. She must have been carrying Thomas. She remembered his weight slipping on her hip. “It’s all right,” Christine said. “Don’t worry about dying. By the time you grow up they’ll probably have invented some medicine so you won’t have to.” She remembered Alan stopping abruptly. Perhaps she put Thomas down then and he went to dabble in the sea rubbish. “I can’t believe you just said that.” He was laughing, but she thought with certainty at that moment: he hates me. The conviction reverberated like a blow against armor; she tasted blood and she wanted to fight. “What’s wrong with saying it? I used to think that when I was a little girl.” “But it isn’t true.” “Of course it’s not true. It’s something reassuring to keep you going until you’re old enough. You know, like Heaven.” “If any adult had ever lied to me about anything so important, I’d never have forgiven them.” She was shocked at herself for a moment: she wondered if he was right. Then, recovering, she mocked him. “But that’s just what you’re like, isn’t it? You love to go around not forgiving people for things. How austere and rigorous it must make you feel. What a little prig of a child you must have been.” He opened his mouth to answer, closed it, and turned to stride away from her down the beach. She hurried raggedly after him, not finished, snatching Thomas up from whatever he was interested in: threading washed-up ringpulls on his fingers or poking a dead gull with a stick. In her memory a wind came whipping up, tearing out her words. “So what would you have told him, then? If you’re so truthful.” He wanted to keep his mouth shut against her but he couldn’t resist giving his opinion, beautifully expressed. There had been a time when she would have hung on these words of his devotedly. “I’d tell him that without death life would be formless. That change is the life force.” Christine burst out with a loud snort of laughter. “Well, try that, then! Just try it. What d’you think about that, Thomas? Daddy says you have to die, but not to worry. It will give your life a nicer shape.” Thomas gave a rather stagy mew of despair, as if in fact he’d lost interest in the subject, and he snuggled his head reproachfully against Christine’s lapel. Alan thought Christine encouraged him to be precocious. He walked away from them now, faster than they could follow, his shoulders in his black greatcoat bowed against the wind, head down, his hair blowing out behind. Then he turned around and walked backward, facing them, looking at them. Christine couldn’t remember if that argument had actually been the end of things, or if they’d made a truce later that afternoon or that night, at whatever hotel or rented cottage they were staying in, and gone on patching things up for a while longer. The morning after Thomas’s visit, Christine was climbing the stairs to her office at the college when someone came running up below her. “Dr. Logan?” Christine paused, resting her pile of books and papers on the bannister; someone young with a blond head lifted to look up at her came around the stairwell with a clatter of heels. “Dr. Logan? Do you mind if I just talk to you for a moment?” Because she was expecting a student with a query about an essay, there was a disconcerting lapse of seconds before Christine registered that the blond head belonged to Anna, Thomas’s girlfriend, whom she’d known for three years. Of course, there was no reason for Anna, who worked in the wardrobe department of the English National Opera, to be on campus: she had never been there before. Also, she had never called Christine Dr. Logan. “Anna, darling, how lovely to see you. Whatever are you doing here? How did you find me?” “I want to talk about Tom.” In one smooth movement, feeling in her bag for her office keys, Christine decided that her first loyalty was to Thomas’s confidence. She turned on Anna a look wiped clear of any foreknowledge. “Is something wrong?” Anna’s face was guilelessly open, sorrow stamped on it like a black bootprint. She could not speak until Christine had her door open and they were safely inside. Under the posters and potted plants, Christine put the kettle on—Anna nodded an indifferent assent—to make peppermint tea. Anna pressed her palms against her cheeks: her hands were big and pink and sensitive, like her ears, with fingertips reddened from sewing. “He’s seeing someone else.” At least Christine wouldn’t pretend not to take her seriously. “Tell me about it.” “I mean, I don’t have any proof. Just the usual silly stuff. Times he’s late coming home, things he says he’s doing that don’t sound quite right. Just something—like he’s all the time slightly impatient with me, but then he’s sorry for that and covering it up by being extra nice. I just know the way Tom would be if he were doing it.” “It could be nothing. I know he’s the nicest boy in the world, but underneath all that he can be moody.” “I actually thought he might have talked to you. I know he came to see you yesterday. I haven’t spoken to anyone else about this.” Anna had always treated Christine with tender respect. Now she scanned her intently with strained-open blue eyes, careless in her desperation. Love, this destroying kind of love, swelled the girl up, gave her a ferocity and an authority that Christine had never seen in her before. She shook her head sympathetically. “He talked about work.” “He didn’t say anything about me that struck you?” “He worries about whether he’s doing the right thing, in his job.” “Is that all? Are you sure? I have to know what he’s thinking.” “He’s bored stuffing envelopes for someone he doesn’t believe in.” Anna sighed, frowning impatiently at Christine, or through her: she would know what she was looking for when she found it, and it wasn’t this. She wasn’t convinced that Christine was telling the whole truth. A pressured moment swayed in the air between them: Anna jostling roughly for more, Christine blandly resisting. “He did mention wanting to travel in Europe. But I don’t know how serious that was.” “You see. I’ve not heard anything about that. Where in Europe, exactly? When? Who with?” “He was probably only talking about a holiday. Budapest, perhaps? He didn’t say anything about who with.” “There. You see?” “I suppose I simply took it that he meant alone.” Anna stood up from the swivel office chair and turned and stared out of the window at nothing, below: a nowhere space between the Humanities block and Social Sciences, furnished with a few benches and young trees. She was tall, the same height as Christine, but with a figure that Christine had never had: high full round breasts, a narrow graspable waist, long slender haunches that suggested some graceful running creature, a gazelle. Between her short cutoff top and the absurdly low waistband of her trousers was a long expanse of flawless goosefleshed golden skin, curving into a sweet round rump. The clothes seemed incidental; Anna’s young nakedness was in the room between them. With a sharpness almost like longing, Christine was aware of Anna’s piercings, even now that her back was turned: in her nose and her belly button, gold rings with little ruby-colored beads. These young women didn’t know what they had. They suffered because they couldn’t have Thomas to keep, but they had the struggle over him, the game of pursuit and being pursued, and the sometime possession of him in the flesh. For as long as the thought lasted, that snatched possession felt to Christine like the only thing worth living for: a possibility of joy that was no longer available to the mothers of these children. Anna turned from the window. Her face was blotched an ugly red with tears. “What would you do?” “Well, I’d ask him,” Christine said at once. “Don’t you think that he’ll tell you the truth?” “Yes,” Anna said bleakly. “I expect he will.” At home Christine prepared an omelette for her supper. She washed lettuce hearts and vine tomatoes; she sliced cucumber and made a vinaigrette. She mashed parsley into a lump of butter with lemon juice, and sautéed a little tinned tuna in a pan with finely chopped shallots. When all this was ready she broke the eggs into a bowl, to beat them. The second egg had gone bad. It felt strange to the touch, the shell weak and scabbed, but even as she registered this it was too late—she had cracked the egg against the side of the bowl and a foul greenish liquid poured out between her fingers, the thin texture of water, not albumen. A stink of putrefaction thrust wildly, rudely, into the kitchen. She didn’t know what to do; she pressed her mouth and nose against her sleeve, not pulling the shell apart any farther, not wanting to see inside. The mess was too awful, too violently offensive, to pour down the drain; it would surely come back at her, and perhaps at her neighbors, for hours afterward. She found an empty peanut-butter jar with a lid, saved for recycling, tipped the whole lot into that, and screwed the lid on, only half allowing herself to look at it. Then she ran downstairs out of her flat to the bins outside, where she buried the jar deep among the rubbish bags. Upstairs she opened all the windows, even though it was raining, ran water for long minutes down the sink. She bleached the egg bowl and the dishcloth she had used to wipe up the few drops of egg that had spattered on the counter; she washed her hands in the bathroom over and over. Still, every time she put her fingers to her nose she was haunted by the smell. The thought of the rest of her supper nauseated her; she tipped the salad and the tuna into the bin. She knew she was being irrational; she ought to phone a friend and make a joke out of her small disaster, and perhaps go out for a drink and something to eat. Instead she abandoned herself to sulking, lying on her side on the sofa, her hands clasped between her knees. The idea came to her out of nowhere that there would be a last time that she brought anyone home to make love in her bed. It was not yet, it might not be for years, but it would come, even though she might not recognize it until long afterward. How could Christine envy Thomas’s two girls? Who could want to be one of the two foolish Anns, desperate for him? Or to be Alan, with his beard shaven and his silvery hair clipped close to his skull, hoping to start out on the adventure of passion all over again? How much happier she was, how much less time and energy it took to be Thomas’s mother: a relationship founded on one fixed and unalterable truth. Outside her spectacular arched window the wind threw rain in long ragged gusts across the housefronts and tore at the estate agents’ signs, setting them flapping in crazy ecstasy. Christine told herself that she was glad she was on this side of the glass, but she lay still on her sofa for a long time, and after a while she turned her back on the view. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Fractious South	As a young boy, I learned many things from many wise people. It was Baba Lyuba, for instance, who told me that if a bird shits on you, that is considered extremely good luck. Before my father left for Afghanistan, he taught me that in the north a falling star was lucky, but in the south—in, say, Stavropol or Nazran—it meant that a bomber had dropped for attack. From Grandpa Ilya I learned that water is life and the quiet fish swimming in it a connection between this world and the next. And, finally, from my mother, who worked in those days as a censor and translator for the Main Administration for Safeguarding State Secrets in the Press, I learned that because we were Jews we were invisible. This, she added, was a common enough ailment for Jews anywhere, east or west. The only people more invisible than Russian Jews, she said, were Gypsies, and Baba Lyuba explained that the Gypsies had learned it from us. We lived in a town just north of Rostov-on-Don, that great gateway city of the Russian south. The summers were hot. The clouds, heat-frazzled, gave up on rain and drifted empty across the wide sky. There was never enough water to persuade the dust to settle. Standing roadside, I learned to read, by the shape of the dust clouds and how long they hovered, what kind of vehicle was approaching and how fast. A bicycle shot out a thin ribbon of dirt behind its back tire. Smaller cars, like a Niva or a Lada, churned up a loose swath of dirt. Volgas, the sedans popular with the K.G.B., raised the road in a boxlike pattern, each shifting of the gears producing a tighter cloud in its wake. But the kamaz and gaz-66 transport carriers plowed the whole road up into the air, lifting the leaves of the weary aspens and willows and coating them in distinct layers of ashen-colored earth. The gaz-66s were almost always stuffed with the bodies of dead Russian soldiers. When they passed, we all stood a little way back from the road, out of respect and in recognition of the fact that we did not want anything that had touched a carrier—not even its dust—to touch us. An impossibility on our street, where Mother and Baba swept the dust from one end of the flat to the other, which was how people cleaned in summertime. I was seven when the trouble in Afghanistan heated up. Father left town in a kamaz headed for the Rostov military airfields. Everybody watched the convoy roll by, the rumbling of the engines rattling the fine china in our cupboards. Mother worked extra hours at the bureau in Rostov, rewriting events so that the human heartache she encountered daily would sound as if it were happening to imaginary people living in far-off places. She hated that job. Truth, she confided to me one day, was a dark stain, and the words of any language were like leaves: one more way to hide ourselves from one another. The truth, she said, was that people born under the Soviet Red Star were doomed to move the earth with their feet, carrying their homeland from place to place. Not so long ago, she reminded me, the Chechens had been moved from the Caucasus to Kazakhstan and the Tatars from the Crimea and the Germans from the Volga. All these people rewriting the roads with the soles of their feet—no wonder everyone looked so tired. “Yes,” Mother said, as she laid her cool hand on my forehead, “roads are unlucky.” And I knew she was right. After all, a road had taken my father from us. Baba Lyuba told us that part of being invisible is being quiet, so we didn’t complain. Except Grandpa Ilya, who grumbled that all the dust and the noise had completely unnerved the fish. “They’re terrified,” he explained one day at the river’s edge. I was having my first fishing lesson. I leaned over the water. Down below I could see the fish, dark as stones, eating the shadows of the trees along the bank. “Yes, fish have feelings, just like you and me. And now they’re afraid, even when they pretend they’re not.” Grandpa wiped his hands on the front of his fishing T-shirt, given to him by a friend from the West: “Smart People Aren’t Worth a Shirt,” it read, but he had covered the “r” in “shirt” with a piece of white electrical tape. Grandpa could get away with such things: he had fought the Germans in the Great Patriotic War and he had a piece of shrapnel in his hip to prove it. He was also famous for having once sneaked a carp he’d poached past the police station by dressing it in baby clothes and pushing it in a little squeaky-wheeled pram. That summer, with a handful of worms, Grandpa and I lured the gudgeon that we liked to use for bait into biting. They were good-looking, with their olive flanks paling to yellow and silver, and then deepening again to a dark green—the kind of fish that made me think God must have had a good time when he painted the first of them. But, for all their good looks, God did not give them brains. It took only a few minutes to catch enough of them to start our bid for the bigger fish: pike, chub, barbel, carp, and maybe the mythic speckled trout, a fish we talked about only in low whispers, since no one, not even the veterans who fished the river every day, had ever actually hooked one. We fished every day that summer and the following summer and the summer after that while we awaited news of my father. And each day Grandpa Ilya taught me something new. It was Grandpa Ilya who showed me that the hook is the backbone to the bait and the connection to the fish. That with a little piece of metal we can be made one. He didn’t always know which vowels to write in some words, but that was all right, because he could solve difficult math problems in his head. And he had a finely calibrated sense of proportion that came from his many years of hardship and military service. In spite of all that had been done to him and all that he had done, he did not hate people; he merely hated the things they did. It was Grandpa who told me that nothing in life could be so bad that fishing wouldn’t make it better, or, if not better, then bearable, or, if not that, then at least it was a way to pass the time while you waited for your luck to change. Over the course of the next ten years, the River Don rose and fell, rose and fell, like a body breathing. In winter, the waters shrank. Then, if we used balls of pork lard—which was unkosher but necessary to hook the more discriminating fish—we might catch enough perch and carp to feed us for several weeks. In summer, the river swelled and the pike flopped about in the reeds. Whatever the season, we began with the same rituals—me asking Grandpa if we were allowed to fish at whichever spot he’d chosen and Grandpa wiggling a finger in his ear: “What? What is that funny noise I hear? Such questions!” And as long as the fish had a sporting chance—that is, as long as they were in water—any manner or method of catching them was O.K. We fished, and over the course of that decade of watching the water move away from us and reshape its banks with each season we learned to stop waiting for my father. As time passed, Grandpa got older and a little deafer. Mother learned a few more languages and took a job with Red Star, the military newspaper. Baba wore filmy nightgowns over her housedress, and I married the first girl who didn’t say no. Me, with my eyes set a little too close together for anyone’s comfort, and Voya, with her furry eyebrows and jagged teeth—we were a perfect match. We even had passion. I for the fish and she for American cosmetics, but when she was ovulating, bless her, she also had some passion for me. We just had time for a quick wedding before I was called up into the Russian Army. There was trouble in the fractious south, once again in Chechnya, and so off went all the young men of our town: Oleg from two floors down; Good Nikolai, the kid I used to pick on, and Bad Nikolai, the kid who picked on me; and Boris, a troubled-genius type who had mapped out entire lexicons and systems of thought and had chess champion written all over him. As our sweethearts and mothers waved from the windows, we stirred up a small city of dust in our convoy headed to Mozdok, where we would operate tanks and learn the basics of bomb detonation. When I returned home two years later, nothing was right. Grandpa Ilya spent his days sitting on a metal bench in our apartment building’s dusty courtyard. Instead of rigging a fishing rod, he sat tying flies that he had no intention of using. “The fish can’t even swim straight anymore,” he explained. “It’s on account of those biological chemicals they’re using in the south,” Vitaly Vitaliev, the self-appointed superintendent of our building, who was famous for his mouth full of gold-capped teeth, piped up. “Ever seen a fish swim sideways?” As if that weren’t bad enough, I started hearing things. Ever since Oleg from two floors down stepped on a mine and got himself blown to bits, everywhere I went and in everything I did I heard the sound of ticking. When I rode my bike to the river, I heard tick tick tick. Pedalling over the verge of dry grass that followed the road: tick tick tick. Climbing the steps to the apartment: tick tick tick. It haunted me, this sound. “Idiot,” Voya said, on non-babymaking days. “Stupid!” Tinke, our upstairs neighbor, tapped in code with her wrench on the water pipes. “You are hearing the sprockets on your bike.” But I knew what I heard. On this morning, as I stood on the wet banks of the river, it was Voya, resplendent with anger, her hair freshly dyed and dripping fiery orange down her neck. “Misha!” she shouted. Her voice scattered the swifts in the lime trees, and I imagined that the fish that had been waiting patiently also scattered. Which was O.K. I couldn’t even hold the rod steady anymore and I hadn’t actually seen a fish in weeks: not the chubs with the metallic-blue scales, or the whiskered barbels, or even the greedy pike that liked to navigate the reeds for overfed and unwary ducks. Voya perched on the muddy bank and tried hard to look kulturny in her new shoes—very chic, very pointed, with mean-spirited stiletto heels. “If you can get up so early, then why can’t you get a job?” It was a perfectly reasonable question. I shrugged, a hapless signature move, which always drove Voya nuts. I knew that she wanted evidence of some ambition on my part. “Well, what do you do with yourself all day long?” Voya had her hands on her hips. “Fish,” I said. Before I even had time to duck, one of those prestigious shoes sliced through the air and clipped me on the back of the head. And then off she limped, squish squish, through the mud. Every other step was murder for some unlucky worm, but a worm, unlike a man, can be broken in half and still survive. Since I’d come back and devoted myself to a life of contemplative fishing, choosing forgetfulness as a path to healing, all Voya and I could do was fight. And drink. And fight some more. Most nights, her anger burned its way through the courtyard, up the urine-scented stairs, and along the corridors of the massive concrete apartment structure. Pockmarks in the walls spoke of her many attempts to impale me with her shoes. It was a woman’s way, Vitaly sometimes tried to console me, to express love as hatred and vice versa. “She wouldn’t keep trying to kill you if she didn’t really care,” Vitaly said one afternoon, his gold-plated incisors gleaming. He handed me a bottle of Crobar. “Now drink—down to the bottom!” he commanded. I took the bottle and handed over two of the three perch I’d brought back from the river—his portion for being so well informed about so many things, like where and to whom to sell my fish, a deficit food item, and how much to ask per kilo. It was early evening by the time we’d killed his bottle. Since they don’t manufacture Crobar bottles with resealable caps, it was our moral obligation not to leave the job unfinished, Vitaly once told me. I was inclined to believe him; having been in the secret police years earlier, he knew things that the rest of us didn’t know or didn’t want to know. But Mother had informed me long ago that Vitaly had Gypsy blood, and was thus given to fanciful pranks and stories. He had a bad habit, she said, of grasping at knowledge that outstripped his comprehension. I knew my mother was right about the Gypsy part. When Vitaly heard about Oleg being blown to bits, the first thing he did was go into the courtyard. There he pressed stones in the form of a cross until they were level with the mud, the idea being that the earth always takes back its own. Vitaly did other Gypsy things, such as cooking porcupines in clay. And when he couldn’t find porcupines he cooked rats, which, frankly, are just porcupines that have lost their spines and thus their sense of self-worth. Vitaly liked to drink, and preferred to view life from the bottom of a vodka bottle—that was the best thing about him—and most days I even liked him, told myself that he was like a father or an older, more calculating version of me. Thinking this way helped me overlook his completely threadbare moral development. As evening tipped into night, the moon roiled about as if cast on a fishing line. From his waistband, Vitaly withdrew a second bottle of vodka. Though I already had an infant hangover threatening to cut its teeth, I kept drinking. It is, after all, considered good luck to cure a hangover by pouring more booze on top of it. “Ach, you bitch!” Vitaly shouted. Though he held the bottle at arm’s length, the gesture signalled affection. “Speaking of dogs . . .” He pointed to an old edition of Izvestiya, scattered at the bottom of the stairs. “Those Chechens—who do they think they are? Savages—they deserve what’s coming to them!” I winced and wagged my head from side to side, like a weary metronome. I’d seen a lot of bad things happen to people I knew. Oleg, of course, irretrievable. And Boris, the troubled genius, whose dark hair had, in the course of a single maneuver, turned chalk white. If his Army-issue assault weapon had spilled innocent blood, then why not the guilty, he asked. And the next day, with a coat hanger rigged to the trigger, he shot himself. Good Nikolai and Bad Nikolai: both of them dead. Their bodies torched, their eyes open to see it. Yes, bad things happen. And nobody knows it better than those of us who come home. “You should go back and kick their asses, boy-o.” Vitaly gave me the bottle. “You should do it for Mother Russia.” “It’s something to think about,” I said. Vitaly smiled and a gold tooth winked. He rubbed his hand on my head, the Gypsy reminder to stop thinking. By the time we finished the bottle, light had seeped over the hills, turning the clouds the texture of curdled milk. The hammers inside my head had quieted to a bearable rhythm, but I could hear Baba Lyuba and Tinke upstairs arguing, again. I trudged past Vitaly and up to the third-story landing. Mother was scurrying around, darting into the open flat, then rushing out again. First looking for her coat. Then for her hat. “What is going on?” Grandpa Ilya’s voice followed her. “Nothing important,” Mother said, rushing back in for her purse. “What, then?” came Baba Lyuba’s voice. On the landing, Mother brushed a kiss on each of my cheeks, then tipped her chin toward Baba. “Yeltsin is having trouble with his heart again,” she said, and disappeared down the stairs. Before the outer door had even fallen back into the locks, Baba was wailing. I thought she’d gone barking mad. Who could weep for a man like that? But then, as the bent rims of worry turned around and around, I realized that Mother had been speaking in military euphemisms again. Yeltsin’s heart trouble meant another major operation in Chechnya, and she had to make it sound good before the next day’s papers hit the stands. “Mi-sha!” Voya’s alto voice broke in half, summoning in an instant the hangover hammers. Then she appeared on the landing. She glared at me and brushed a brittle strand of hair behind an ear. She’d dyed it again, this time the color of cadmium rage. “I can’t live like this forever,” she said. “How else should we live?” I asked, ducking into the apartment. “Better. We should live better, and we should have things.” “What things?” “Things. An apartment to ourselves.” Voya waved her thermometer at me. “Babies.” Such impossible desires, especially since we had all the typical post-Soviet problems—that is, we were in possession of some brains and absolutely no clout or money. In the same boat were my mother and Grandpa Ilya and Baba Lyuba. Which was why we all lived together in the first place, our sleeping areas cordoned off with a complicated network of towels hung as curtains from clotheslines. “Don’t you want things?” The bottom dropped out of Voya’s voice. Baba Lyuba looked at me, clicked her tongue in disappointment, and turned back to the TV, winking and blinking there on the reinforced cardboard box it came in. On the screen was an old broadcast of Yeltsin addressing a crowd. Even though he had a way of thrusting his neck out in order to hide his double chin and make his jaw appear stronger, he didn’t look good on camera. There were big problems in the south, Yeltsin said, but all I heard was the old Soviet slogan: “With an iron hand, we will drive humanity to happiness!” He raised a fist, and the people, hearing strong words that suggested purpose, words we all like to hear sometimes, clapped and shouted. In the corner of the screen, a clock kept time, the second hand ticking loudly, as if to remind us all to keep breathing. “Do you hear that?” I turned to Baba Lyuba. “What?” She sniffed the air. “What?” Grandpa Ilya shouted. With her wrench, Tinke from upstairs tapped out in code: What? What? “That ticking!” I cried. Responding to some ancient cue, Baba Lyuba jumped up and ran around the room opening and shutting doors, peering into the cuffs of sleeves, both her own and those of others. Old habits die hard, and Baba was, if anything, a creature of habit. But she could assemble a Kalashnikov in less than fifteen seconds, so if she wanted to wear flimsy lingerie and shout, I say, do what makes the most noise and be happy. Then, from behind our layer of privacy towels, came Voya’s voice, strangely modulated to something like tenderness: “Mi-sha! Come here!” I stepped behind the curtain. Voya slid her nylons to her shins and I studied her thighs and the sliver of light that shone between them. She waved the thermometer at me. Ah. A baby-making moment. Good taste and good sense impose certain limits, but never in my life have I been accused of possessing either. And it’s hard to say no to Voya. Off came the pants. Then, in labored silence, Voya and I set about doing what a man and a woman must do. Baba coughed and dragged the kettle over the burner, doing everything she could to convince herself that she wasn’t hearing what she knew she was hearing, while Tinke kept clanking on the pipes. Add to this the noise of Vitaly playing sentimental songs on a paper and comb, exploring the metaphysical riffs and eddies of life as clarified by the fumes of his rapidly emptying vodka bottle: “Which proves that creation began on a Tuesday, which is all the more reason to drink on a Monday.” Vitaly’s wisdom drifted up through our open window. Through all of this, I could sense more than see Grandpa Ilya in his chair looking at his Western fly-tying manual, recalling, I suppose, all the fish that had got away. The baby-making rendezvous over, Voya rolled out from under me and took her temperature again. A golden moment, because it is nearly impossible to utter demeaning observations with a thermometer in your mouth. But then out came the thermometer, and it was all systems go. “This business in Chechnya. Vitaly says it’ll be over before it even really starts.” “I don’t know.” I wagged my head, remembering what I’d seen before. “The Chechens can knock out tanks as well as anybody else,” I said. “It’s a job. It’s good money.” “Maybe.” I shrugged. “I don’t know.” “You don’t know much, do you?” Voya said, more amazed now than angry. I thought of Boris and dropped my head to my hands. “Sometimes it’s better to be a happy idiot,” I groaned. “Well, good news. You’re halfway there.” Voya pulled on her nylons. “I suppose you’ll go fishing now.” Mention an itch, and a scratch is sure to follow. I grabbed my net and rod and flew down the stairs. Vitaly met me at the bottom. He had another issue of Izvestiya in his hand, the paper rolled up tight. “Boy-o.” He draped an arm over my shoulder. “I like you. You’re not too bright, but you try hard. That’s why I’m telling you something I haven’t told any of the other guys.” “What?” Vitaly laid a finger alongside his nose. “Things.” “What things?” At the open window above us, Baba’s head appeared between pots sprouting little yellow stars, the flowers of future tomatoes. “Things,” Vitaly said, steering me closer to the building. “For instance, if you were to go back and participate in a military operation, you’d receive five million rubles.” “Five million!” I heard Baba yell up to Tinke. “If the operation was successful, three million more. For the knocking out of a tank or an armored vehicle, an additional three million. The destruction of a self-propelled artillery gun would get five million.” Vitaly stopped to catch his breath. From our window, I could hear Voya on the phone with a girlfriend: “Does it have a real oven—the kind you bake things in?” Her voice cartwheeled up the octaves. Yes, she wanted things. Then came Mother through the courtyard, back already from the bureau, in her hands the latest edition of Red Star. “What happens if I die?” I whispered. Vitaly could hardly contain himself. “Then your family would be paid a hundred and thirty million rubles. Think of it! Brilliant and so simple. Only a real idiot could screw this up.” “But I was just a foot soldier.” “Pah.” Vitaly waved a hand at a mosquito. “I can fix it so that you were and still are élite Kantemirov 4th Tank Division.” But Mother, who knew more about it than Vitaly ever could, shook her head sadly. “Don’t listen to him,” she said, so quietly that it could have been another mosquito buzzing by my ear. Vitaly stuffed his hands in his pockets and considered the possibilities. “Yes, I can fix it. For half your pay, I’ll fix it. It’s so simple, really.” I looked at my rod and net. I thought of the logic of water. How it is necessary sometimes for one creature to trade its life for another. The worm for the chop, the caddis for the trout. “Do it for God!” Vitaly said. “Or do it for your family,” he added gently. Then he lifted his gaze to Grandpa Ilya, wedged next to Baba and peering down at us from the tomato pots. “Do it for all those Chechen fish. In the mountain lakes they have fish the size of big dogs.” Down the street, a convoy of gaz-66s moaned. The spell broken, Mother moved past me, her head down. Yes, the Chechen trout are legendary. In the high lakes of the Sunzha region lives the Pacha-chaar, the kingfish. Mother told me that when Tsar Alexander II first ate this trout, he developed such a taste for it that he immediately had them railed in to St. Petersburg in cars equipped with oversize aquariums. Ever since, anglers have been relentless in their pursuit of the Pacha-chaar, that trout with the golden scales and the regal mouth. This fish knows the number of days a man has left to live, and if you hook it, it must tell you your fate. I counted the steps up to the landing. Mother was waiting outside our flat. She kept her head down and the newspaper clutched to her chest. But, over the top of her glasses, she fixed her eyes on mine. “He’s dangerous, you know. His ideas are like his vodka—cheap and intoxicating,” she said, pushing open the door. Later, at the cardboard table, Mother spread out an old edition of Red Star while Baba and Voya poured tea and put out white bread and a small bowl of dark cherries. We all ate and drank in silence. Grandpa Ilya finished tying a dark cahill fly, the ginger hackles fluttering seductively with every movement of the air. Voya checked her reflection in the belly of the silver coffeepot, so tarnished that it had a purple sheen the color of a pike’s flanks. Her eyebrows had thinned a bit, and I knew that, despite her rage, she really was worried. Baba spilled some tea on the newspaper and leaned to examine the damage. The red star had smeared, the ink staining the table underneath. “Oh, if only you-know-who were still alive,” she said, touching the wet star. “Yes, things would be better. He was a true hero.” Mother jumped from her chair, her hand raised, as if she were going to strike Baba. “How can you say that after what he did to the Jews!” Baba levelled her gaze at Mother. “Stalin won the war. And there was bread in the shops. Every day,” Baba said, poking at the bread on her plate. “And I don’t mean this stuff here.” Grandpa pinched the cahill fly between his thumb and forefinger and held it up. “Listen to us!” He spoke to the fly. “If God is home and goodness the land we are searching for, then we are in a far country,” he said, dropping the fly. “Yes,” Baba said, hanging her head, “but it is still our country.” Mother carried her teacup to the sink, the cup trembling in the saucer. Voya popped the last cherry into her mouth, hooked an arm through mine, and led me to our sanctuary behind the towels. “Your grandmother!” Voya rolled the cherry from one side of her mouth to the other. I shook my head. “The thing to remember about Baba is that she honestly thinks the dead come back to see who’s wearing their shoes and to reclaim beloved handbags.” “Still, she has a point. War is good business. Especially if you win.” The stone of the cherry knocked between Voya’s teeth. “Yes, but the Chechens—they are people just like us. If they want their own patch of dirt, some rocks, why not let them have it?” “So stay, if you want. I don’t care!” Voya said at last, spitting out the stone. It flew through the air and stuck to my shirt. “Just do something besides fish!” I reached for her shoulder, and she sank to the mattress and began to weep, her sobbing grand and troubled and mysterious all at the same time. I held Voya—or, rather, she allowed me to hold her—and eventually she wiped her nose on my shirt. “Oh, Misha, you are like a child,” she said, her chin wobbling. “I can’t be angry with a child.” Voya stuck her thermometer into her mouth, and I counted the seconds. Then she yanked the instrument out, frowning. “No,” she waved the thermometer in the air. “And not right here, either.” Then she pulled the bedsheet up over her head and fell fast asleep. They say that we dream at night of what we want by day but don’t have the words for. In the daytime, we are poor, our words flimsy, but nighttime makes us rich, the images of the big and small things we desire swirling about as if they were ours already. As I slept, pictures trotted across my eyelids, and I dreamed of Voya besieged by an army of toasters. I saw Baba Lyuba and fourth-story Tinke, reconciled at last, floating downriver in a washtub, Baba steering with her mop. For Grandpa Ilya, I dreamed of a complicated three-tiered tackle box complete with chenille, peacock burls, long ring-necked rooster hurls, lead wire, and the lemon-colored side feathers of a duck—everything he would need to make flies that would fool even the most discerning of fish. For Mother, who wanted to live only on the bread of faithful speech, I dreamed of newspapers with blank pages. For myself, I dreamed of the silent wrasse with a bolt of iridescent silver scales and mandarin-orange flames running along its flanks. I dreamed of weed beds full of pike and reeds of perch, the black-tailed dace and the mythic taimen of the Siberian rivers, and all the fish quietly sleeping on the other side of the world. A dog barked. Voya stirred and muttered, “Idiot!” Even in sleep, she was angry, her eyebrows stitched together. I pulled on my boots, crept through the flat and down the corridor, and tiptoed past Vitaly, snoring in the stairwell. The air was heavy, splitting at the seams. It was one of those foggy melting mornings, good for tossing coins and not looking where they fall. I got my bike and headed for the river and imagined, as I pedalled, and it squeaked and ticked, that it was singing sad songs, saying with its groans all that I wished I could say and never would. When I reached the river, the veterans had already stretched their nets over the best spots. Upriver, the young boys, on summer holiday and bored, acted out the Book of Revelation. They threw rocks at each other and mimicked the various plagues described in that terrible book. Two boys tortured a hapless frog. Two others pretended that the river had turned to blood. And, because I had a patchy beard and close-set eyes, they called me Jesus. As I pedalled by one of the boys, a stone whizzed past my ear. “You’re dead!” the boy shrieked. I stopped my bike and turned to him. It was Oleg’s little brother, Yuri. “I lobbed a grenade at you and you’re dead!” Yuri jabbed the air between us with a stick. I kept pedalling, and my bike kept ticking, all the way downriver to the place where the rocks broke the current. The water smelled like metal and the air smelled like earth. I planted my feet in the dirt, my body hollow and aching, but my hand steadier than it had been in months. Then I cast my line, cutting into the water like a razor. I stood like that for hours, watching the sun slide through the sky. I was thinking about the fish, how they live their whole lives fighting water. They charge against the current, pushing for spawning waters. And then I felt a tug. I tightened my grip on the pole and hauled the line in. A speckled trout! How it had escaped the nets of the veterans I couldn’t even guess. We fought for a while, me hauling the line, the fish trying to slough off the hook. At last, I worked the trout to the shallows. As I lifted it from the water and onto solid ground, it whipped its body around, thrashing against the hard-packed earth, croaking and whistling, angry to have been landed. Some people may not think much of the speckled trout, but on the bank, as it gasped and fought for air, the light caught its orange fins and red flanks and I saw for myself how beautiful a fish it was. I wanted to touch its heaving sides, make sure its scales weren’t actually gutter-shot gold. So pure and brave a fish—I was almost sorry to see it come to this. Then I stabbed it and cleaned it quickly. I killed it because that’s what I had been taught to do and I was taught that we were not bad people for doing this. I thought of Good Nikolai and Bad Nikolai, of Boris. After all, even the beautiful and strong sometimes pay with their lives. And where only moments earlier I had stood in amazement before this fish, with its strong body and its powerful fins suggesting flight, I now stood saddened to have been the reason for its demise. I bent and washed my hands in the river. Then I stepped out of the water, slid the trout inside my shirt, its slick skin against mine, and pedalled away. The whole way home I felt as if I had swallowed a sharp river reed and it had lodged inside my chest. When I opened my mouth for air, a hollow sound came whistling out of my throat. And inside my head that old ticking marked the retreat of the clouds and their slow cooling from the colors of fire to the colors of dusk: from pink to purple, to the hue of a bluing plate along a rifle, and then to ash. By the time I’d made it to our courtyard, the moon was tethered to the hills, a full, concrete moon, the kind that turns men into animals, causes dogs to bark and married couples to fight. When Vitaly saw me, he peeled himself from the stone archway. A cloud of mosquitoes followed him, a buzzing halo about his head and ears. He stopped, brought a flask to his mouth. I watched the bobbing of his Adam’s apple. Up, down. Up, down. “Good news, boy-o! I’ve arranged everything!” Vitaly shouted once he’d finished drinking. As he approached, the mosquitoes wobbled away, dizzy. Somehow he looked longer of tooth. From his pocket he withdrew a shot glass. A real drinking glass! He handed me his flask. I could smell the watered-down rocket fuel inside. “Pour!” he ordered, and it struck me, as I carefully rimmed the glass, how amazingly wolflike Vitaly had become in the light of this moon. “So. You’re going. Next week. Drink!” I drank. “Yes, you’ll go and have a wonderful time. Go down there and show them who’s boss. You’ll feel a thousand times better. And, finally, you’ll get the respect you deserve.” “No,” I shook my head. “I don’t think so.” From the fourth-floor window, Tinke’s head emerged, and at our window were Baba and Voya, their hair dyed in companion shades of purple. “Yes, you’ll go and be a thousand times richer,” Vitaly said. I thought of the fish in my shirt, of all the fish I wanted to catch, how along their scales entire decades can flit from shimmer to shadow. “No. I’m not going.” Vitaly blinked, as if in the presence of an unexpected joke. Then he smashed his glass against the stone bench. “You coward! You dirty coward!” he bellowed, his fury absolute. Then he lowered his head and charged. He hit me, hard, in the stomach, and I fell against the stairs. My beautiful speckled trout slipped to the ground. I looked at the fallen fish and felt within me such a mixture of rage and sorrow and lunacy that I almost understood why men kill each other. I reached for my trout and Vitaly lunged again. At that moment, a tomato pot whizzed from high above and clipped him on the shoulder. He staggered and collapsed against the bench. It was a long and thick silence that lay there between us. And then Vitaly grinned. “Now, that’s true love,” he said, fanning the air about his face with one hand and pointing to our tomato pot with the other. I looked at the plant, the scattered dirt, the shards of the pot. Somewhere underneath all the mess was my speckled trout, pulverized. Vitaly took a liberal drink from his flask, then pointed his nose toward the moon and howled. I trudged up the stairs to our flat. Voya met me at the door, took my hand, and led me to our sagging mattress. We sat in silence, listening to Vitaly and to the sounds coming from the road: even at this late hour, the kamaz trucks rattled and whined as they headed south for Mozdok. I thought of how history repeats itself in such sounds, in the growls of tanks and the booms of supersonic jets. How entire centuries are recalled in the return of the same weary dust. I looked at Voya. Her violet hair hung in her face. “Who were you aiming for—me or Vitaly?” I asked her. Voya ran her hands over her dress, smoothing the fabric with her fingers. “You’re right,” I said. “It doesn’t really matter.” “Tell me things will change,” she said. Her voice sounded irremediably sad. It was as if she had swallowed the same reed as I had, and it had changed the texture of her words from anger to a great and jagged sorrow. Through the veil of her hair I could see her mascara running. “Things will change,” I said, but I could hear how empty my words sounded against the rumblings of the convoy outside the window. Baba drifted to and from the windows, conferring with Tinke about Vitaly below. “Well,” Tinke called, “he always was an exhibitionist.” “He’ll probably take off his shirt,” Baba said. “Or worse, recite a poem,” Grandpa Ilya shouted. Mother laughed, and it was such a sweet sound, like water. I thought that, in all this madness, such a sound might save us. “Come closer,” Voya said, unbuttoning my shirt. The concrete moon threw a wash of silver over our mattress. Voya kicked her stockpile of shoes into the corner and pulled her dress over her head, the light of the moon illuminating her neck and shoulders and her very kulturny Western brassiere. Ah, the concrete moon! It was, after all, the kind of moon that made crows fly backward and wheatgrass volunteer beside the road. A moon that asked the dust to settle, winked at stolen kisses, and caused the early stars to bloom in the sky and tomatoes to ripen on the vine. Voya kissed me then. Such kisses! With the first kiss, I was transported to the days before I knew what a war was. With the second, I was returned to the red passion of our youth, and with the third to renewal, to being brought back from the dead, remade from mud. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Adams	I never could stomach Adams and then one day he’s standing in my kitchen, in his underwear. Facing in the direction of my kids’ room! So I wonk him in the back of the head and down he goes. When he stands up, I wonk him again and down he goes. Then I roll him down the stairs into the early-spring muck and am like, If you ever again, I swear to God, I don’t even know what to say, you miserable fuck. Karen got home. I pulled her aside. Upshot was: Keep the doors locked, and if he’s home the kids stay inside. But after dinner I got to thinking: Guy comes in in his shorts and I’m sitting here taking this? This is love? Love for my kids? Because what if? What if we slip up? What if a kid gets out or he gets in? No, no, no, I was thinking, not acceptable. So I went over and said, Where is he? To which Lynn said, Upstairs, why? Up I went and he was standing at the mirror, still in his goddam underwear, only now he had on a shirt, and I wonked him again as he was turning. Down he went and tried to crab out of the room, but I put a foot on his back. If you ever, I said. If you ever again. Now we’re even, he said. I came in your house and you came in mine. Only I had pants on, I said, and mini-wonked him in the back of his head. I am what I am, he said. Well, that took the cake! Him admitting it! So I wonked him again, as Lynn came in, saying, Hey, Roger, hey. Roger being me. And then he rises up. Which killed me! Him rising up? Against me? And I’m about to wonk him again, but she pushes in there, like intervening. So to wonk him again I had to like shove her back, and unfortunately she slipped, and down she went, and she’s sort of lying there, skirt hiked up—and he’s mad! Mad! At me! Him in his underwear, facing my kids’ room, and he’s mad at me? Many a night I’ve heard assorted wonks and baps from Adams’s house, with her gasping, Frank, Jesus, I Am a Woman, You’re Hurting Me, the Kids Are Watching, and so on. Because that’s the kind of guy he is. So I wonked him again, and when she crawled at me, going, Please, Please, I had to push her back down, not in a mean way but in a like stay-there way, which is when, of course, just my luck, the kids came running in—these Adams kids, I should say, are little thespians, constantly doing musicals in the back yard, etc., etc.—so they’re, you know, all dramatic: Mummy, Daddy! And, O.K., that was unfortunate, so I tried to leave, but they were standing there in the doorway, blocking me, like, Duh, we do not know which way to turn, we are stunned. So I shoved my way out, not rough, very gentle—I felt for them, having on more than one occasion heard Adams whaling on them, too—but one did go down, just on one knee, and I helped her up, and she tried to bite me! She did not seem to know what was what, and it hurt, and made me mad, so I went over to Adams, who was just getting up, and gave him this like proxy wonk on top of his head, in exchange for the biting. Keep your damn, I said. Keep your goddam kids from— Then I needed some air, so I walked around the block, but still it wasn’t sitting right. Because now it begins, you know? Adams over there all pissed off, saying false things about me to those kids, which, due to what they had seen (the wonking) and what they had not seen (him in his underwear, facing my kids’ room), they were probably swallowing every mistruth, and I was like, Great, now they hate me, like I’m the bad guy in this, and all summer it’s going to be pranks, my hose slit and syrup in my gas tank, or all of a sudden our dog has a burn mark on her belly. So I type up these like handbills, saying, Just So You Know, Your Dad Was Standing Naked in My Kitchen, Facing My Kids’ Room. And I tape one inside their screen door so they’ll be sure and see it when they go to softball later, then I stuff like nine in their mailbox, and on the rest I cross out “Your Dad” and put in “Frank Adams” and distribute them in mailboxes around the block. All night it’s call after call from the neighbors, saying, you know, Call the cops, Adams needs help, he’s a goof, I’ve always hated him, maybe a few of us should go over there, let us work with you on this, do not lose your cool. That sort of thing. Which was all well and good, but then I go out for a smoke around midnight and what is he looking at, all hateful? Their houses? Don’t kid yourself. He is looking at my house, with that smoldering look, and I am like, What are you looking at? I am what I am, he says. You fuck, I say, and rush over to wonk him, but he runs inside. And, as far as cops, my feeling was: What am I supposed to do, wait until he’s back in my house, then call the cops and hope he stays facing my kids’ room, in his shorts, until they arrive? No, sorry, that is not my way. The next day my little guy, Brian, is standing at the back door, with his kite, and I like reach over and pop the door shut, going, Nope, nope, you know very well why not, Champ. So there’s my poor kid, kite in lap all afternoon, watching some dumb art guy on PBS saying, Shading Is One Way We Make Depth, How About Trying It Relevant to This Stump Here? Then Monday morning I see Adams walking toward his car and again he gives me that smoldering look! Never have I received such a hateful look. And flips me the bird! As if he is the one who is right! So I rush over to wonk him, only he gets in the car and pulls away. All day that look was in my mind, that look of hate. And I thought, If that was me, if I had that hate level, what would I do? Well, one thing I would do is hold it in and hold it in and then one night it would overflow and I would sneak into the house of my enemy and stab him and his family in their sleep. Or shoot them. I would. You would have to. It is human nature. I am not blaming anybody. I thought, I have to be cautious and protect my family or their blood will be on my hands. So I came home early and went over to Adams’s house when I knew nobody was home, and gathered up his rifle from the basement and their steak knives and also the butter knives, which could be sharpened, and also their knife sharpener, and also two letter openers and a heavy paperweight, which, if I was him and had lost all my guns and knives, I would definitely use that to bash in the head of my enemy in his sleep, as well as the heads of his family. That night I slept better until I woke in a sweat, asking myself what I would do if someone came in and, after shoving down my wife and one of my kids, stole my guns and knives and knife sharpener as well as my paperweight. And I answered myself: What I would do is look around my house in a frenzy for something else dangerous, such as paint, such as thinner, such as household chemicals, and then either ring the house of my enemy with the toxics and set them on fire or pour some into the pool of my enemy, which would (1) rot the liner and (2) sicken the children of my enemy when they went swimming. Then I looked in on my sleeping kids and, oh my God, nowhere are there kids as sweet as my kids, and standing there in my pajamas, thinking of Adams standing there in his underwear, then imagining my kids choking and vomiting as they struggled to get out of the pool, I thought, No, no way, I am not living like this. So, entering through a window I had forced earlier that afternoon, I gathered up all the household chemicals, and, believe me, he had a lot, more than I did, more than he needed, thinner, paint, lye, gas, solvents, etc. I got it all in like nine Hefty bags and was just starting up the stairs with the first bag when here comes the whole damn family, falling upon me, even his kids, whipping me with coat hangers and hitting me with sharp-edged books and spraying hair spray in my eyes, the dog also nipping at me, and rolling down the stairs of their basement I thought, They are trying to kill me. Hitting my head on the concrete floor, I saw stars, and thought, No, really, they are going to kill me, and if they kill me no more little Melanie and me eating from the same popcorn bowl, no more little Brian doing that wrinkled-brow thing we do back and forth when one of us makes a bad joke, never again Karen and me lying side by side afterward, looking out the window, discussing our future plans as those yellow-beaked birds come and go on the power line. And I struggled to my feet, thinking, Forget how I got here, I am here, I must get out of here, I have to live. And I began to wonk and wonk, and once they had fallen back, with Adams and his teen-age boy huddled over the littlest one, who had unfortunately flown relatively far due to a bit of a kick I had given her, I took out my lighter and fired up the bag, the bag of toxics, and made for the light at the top of the stairs, where I knew the door was, and the night was, and my freedom, and my home. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Shore	My client for this morning’s 61 Surf Road showing is a welding contractor down from Parsippany, New Jersey, Mr. Clare Suddruth, with whom I’ve already done the toilsome but crucial real-estate spadework over the past months, which means that I’ve driven him around the Sea-Brite-Ortley Beach-Seaside Heights-Lavallette area on what I think of as a lay-of-the-land tour, during which the client gets to see everything for sale in his stated price range, endures no pressure from me, begins to think I’m his friend (since I’m squandering all these hours and gallons of gasoline with nothing in writing), comes in time to gab about his life—his failures, treacheries, and joys—lets me buy him a dozen lunches, and realizes that we’re both pretty much cut out of the same coarse fustian and share many core values (the economy, Vietnam, the need to buy American even though the Japs build a better product, the millennium non-event, America’s troubled youth, how much we’d hate to be young today), though we probably don’t agree about the current Election 2000 impasse in Florida, which has the country at a standstill while the Republicans figure out how to steal it back. But, especially, we do see eye to eye about what constitutes a good house, and how most buyers are better off setting aside their original price targets in favor of stretching their pocketbooks, getting beyond the next dollar threshold (where the houses they really want are as plentiful as hoe handles), and doing a little belt-tightening while the economy’s ebb and flow keeps their boat afloat, on course, and steaming ahead. If this seems like cynical, insincere bamboozlement, bait-and-switch tricksterism, or just old-fashioned, leering faithlessness, let me assure you it’s not. All any client ever has to say is “Look-it here, Bascombe, this really isn’t how I see things. I want to stay right inside, not outside, my price window just the way I said I did when I sat down at your desk.” If that’s the story, then I’m ready to sell you what you want—if I have it. All the rest—the considered, heartfelt exchange of views, the finding of common ground, the beginning of true (if ephemeral) comradeship based on time spent in the same automobile front seat or front yard—any of that I’d do with the Terminix guy. All a person has to do is know his mind about things, which isn’t as usual as it seems. The fact is, I view my role as residential real-estate agent to have a lay therapist’s dimension built right in. And that dimension includes the obligation to leave a client better than I found him or her (there’s plenty in the realty literature to back me up on this). Many citizens set out to buy a house because of an indistinct yearning for which an actual house was never the right solution to begin with, and may be only a quick fix that briefly anchors and stabilizes them but never touches the deeper need, all the while managing to put them in the poorhouse. Most client contacts, in fact, never eventuate in a sale and often, like most human exposures, end after one encounter. Which isn’t to say that the road toward a house—even if no sale is destined—is a road completely without benefit or good issue. A couple of the best friends I’ve made in the real-estate business are people I never sold a house to, and who, by the end of our time together, I didn’t want to sell a house to (though I probably would’ve). One was an African-American lawyer, Geoff Murphy, who was determined to buy an eye-popping mansion at an eye-popping price, slap in the middle of the (all-white) Seminary section of my former home town of Haddam, New Jersey. On Atheneum Place, the richest street. I showed him four houses, bids were submitted on two, accepted on one. Earnest money was rendered, lawyers were called, documents drawn up, inspections completed, mortgages applied for, closing scheduled. But when I picked Geoff up at the August Inn to drive to the act-of-sale meeting, he got in my car clearly distressed. His dark-mahogany, lacquered-looking face had turned a pasty gray from a sleepless night. He was fidgety, he smoked a cigarette right in my car (which he’d never done before), he answered my genial patter in edgy monosyllables, then discovered that he’d forgotten his checkbook, so that we had to go back to the August—where for some reason it was sitting on the edge of the toilet. When we were back in the car, heading to the lawyers, I just said to him, “Look here. What’s bothering you, Geoff? Do you have some reluctance? Because, if you do, I want you to stop right here. I’ll call up Moncrieff and Barnacle and tell ’em the deal’s gone south or we need more time. Whatever. You’ll be back to your room in five minutes. This is not about me, it’s about you. And your money.” “Do you mean that?” Geoff said, his big honey-bear eyes beginning to take in the possibility that I might not be holding his feet to the fire. “I do mean it,” I said. Geoff and I, over the previous weeks, had talked casually of his life as we plowed around Haddam looking at houses. Born in the Druid Heights section of Baltimore, to stalwart parents who loved each other and worked multiple jobs so that he could go to Towson, Geoff had become the first college attendee in a family up from the Alabama cotton patch. Penn Law School followed fast. Chicago Business School. A stint in the Coast Guard. A pair of defective marriages. A lengthy bout with John Barleycorn, a diagnosis of early-onset diabetes, his children’s disapproval of a much younger, white third wife, a union that wasn’t working out but maybe had a chance if he could just get the two of them set up in the right circumstances—all this meant that Haddam was a perfect fit. Geoff’s work as a high-priced restructuring litigator was in Newark, forty miles away. (A car and a driver were part of his deal.) His wife, Hollister (whom I’d met only once), was clearly a ball-buster and would be down the road in a heartbeat, if only due to the difference in their ages—fifty-five versus twenty-eight. Geoff needed, I felt, to do some serious tea-leaf reading and brow-furrowing and possibly take a stab at meditation and marriage counselling before he lashed himself to a $3.1-million, gaudy-as-hell, high-Victorian manor house, needing roof and pricey bathroom work, that was once owned by a whiskey baron and former New Jersey governor but where Geoff would spend most of his evenings alone, and where the neighbors would take fourteen years to ask him for cocktails, and then only do it once. In other words, he’d turn suicidal there. (Of course, I’d have made my ninety thousand, but what larger good would’ve been done?) Long story short: Geoff asked me to make the unwelcome call to the sellers’ lawyer. I made the call. I explained. The situation engendered a bit of abuse and minor epithet-swapping. Geoff swallowed hard on half the up-front money. And he and I sang down the day—a cool March sun-streamer with no humidity—by driving over to New Hope, having shad with shad roe and a good New Zealand Gewürztraminer (he paid), and telling each other the rest of the stories of our lives. His actually included an aspiration to climb Mt. Kornaheho, and to do a stint in the Peace Corps in the spirit of “giving back” both to himself and to the world that his good parents selflessly gave him. Geoff never did buy a house from me, never moved to Haddam, his wife didn’t leave him, his kids reconciled, his parents died happy, he did his Peace Corps stint with his wife, and he now runs a boutique maple-syrup company in Vermont (they sell only the darkest, coarsest kind) and last year was elected selectman. This is a perfect real-estate transaction, in my view, even though no house changed hands. If there weren’t, now and then, such outside-the-envelope transactions, I’d be the first to say that the whole damn business wouldn’t be worth the time of day. I turn right off NJ 35, Sea-Brite, and toward the beach just at the closed-for-the-season Custom Condom Shoppe (“We build ’em to your specs”), and motor slowly down a narrow gravel lane of identical white-and-pastel summer “chalets,” of which there must be thirty in this row, modest fronts facing in, with ten parallel lanes arranged, neighborhood-like, to the north and south, each named for a familiar New Jersey coastal bird (Sandpiper, Common Tern, etc.—I am driving down Cormorant Court). Here is where a good number of our weekly renters—Memorial Day to Columbus Day—spend their happy family vacations, cheek to cheek with hundreds of other souls opting for the same little vernal joys. At several of these chalets (all empty now), pre-winter fixup is under way. All-Honduran repair crews are up on ladders patching little green hip roofs in almost the same color, or are planing screen doors, or regrouting brick foundations after years of salt air. I own ten of these chalets and manage twenty-five more, and several of the Hondurans recognize my Suburban, and give a wave and a snicker at Don Francisco, which makes me mildly uncomfortable. There have been summer chalets in Sea-Brite since the thirties: five-hundred-square-foot cottages, two tiny bedrooms, one simple bath, beaverboard walls, Pullman kitchen, a propane tank, no yard, no grass, no shrubbery, no a/c, no TV, electric wall heaters, St. Vincent de Paul décor, no parking except in front, no privacy from the neighbors ten feet away, bottom-line plumbing, tinted, iron-rich water, occasional gas and sulfur fumes coming from who knows where. And you can’t keep the happy vacationers out of ’em. A certain dedicated precinct of the American soul there is that’ll put up with anything (noise, exotic smells, exotic neighbors, unfriendly pets, high rents—I get eight hundred a week—car traffic, foot traffic, unsound construction, yard seepage, you name it) just to be, and to be able to say, back in Parkersburg and Parma, “It’s a three-minute walk to the beach,” which every unit is, guaranteed. Another disgruntled precinct—members of our boro population (mostly newcomers)—would love to see these chalets bulldozed, and the ground turned into a passive park or, worst case, an outlet mall. But there’s no way. Complicated, runic, fee-simple restrictive covenants that the boro holds (unique to New Jersey) require every postage-stamp householder to agree to sell before the whole acreage can be transferred. Plus, many chalet owners are among Sea-Brite’s oldest year-rounders, who came as children (before summers at the shore became a nightmare), never forgot the fun they had, and couldn’t wait to own a chalet (or six) and start making their retirement nut off another generation’s renters—off the very people they’d once been themselves. (None of these citizens, needless to say, would think to spend two minutes inside any of these sad little domiciles now, which is where I get in the picture.) These days, I do more than my best to keep things in good order, consistent with costs, including letting the occasional struggling writer in need of quiet space to finish his “Moby-Dick” or some frail soul in retirement from love stay free in return for simple indoor repairs. These people never stay long, owing to the very seclusion they thought they craved. Looked at differently, of course, these chalets would be a perfect place for a homicide. Clare Suddruth is already standing out front of the fancy beach house that he thinks he might like to buy. Surf Road is a pure, sandy beach road that starts at the ocean end of Cormorant Court and runs south a quarter mile. If the road extended a mile, which it never will, due to the Draconian shoreline laws, it would run right into Ocean Beach Road, where I live. Clare waits, hands in pockets, in the chill oceanside November breeze. He’s dressed in a short, zippered khaki jacket and sturdy khaki trousers that announce his station as a working joe who’s made good in a rough ’n’ tumble world. The house that Clare’s interested in is—in spirit and in residential design concept—not so different from mine and was built during the same development era, the late seventies, before the laws got serious and curtailed beach construction, driving prices into deep space. In my personal view, 61 Surf Road is not a house a man like Clare should ever think of, so of course he is thinking of it—a lesson we Realtors ignore at our peril. No. 61 is a mostly vertical, isosceles-angled, multi-windowed, skylighted, slant-roofed, copper-guttered, graying redwood board-and-batten with older, stained solar panels which has within it not two, not three, but five or six levels, consistent with the builder’s concern for “interior diversity” and cheap spatial mystery. More than it’s right for Clare, it’s perfect for a young sitcom writer with plenty of new scratch, who can “work from home.” Asking is a million-nine. How the house “presents,” and what the prospective buyer sees, is also typical of the period—two mute, retractable, segmented brown garage doors opening pretty much onto the road, two skimpy windows, and an unlocatable front door, beyond which you go “right up” to a “great” room where the good life purportedly commences. The house actually broadcasts a bland, styleless domiciliary arrogance, which says that this building has no front either because no one’s welcome or else because everything faces the sea, that’s the front, and since it’s not your house why’re you interested anyway? Get over it. Clare Suddruth is a tall, loose-kneed, good-looking man, bristly-haired, big-handed, a sixty-five-year-old ex-G.I.-reen Viet vet with deeply tanned, square-jawed, creased Clint Eastwood features and the seductive murmurous voice of a late-night jazz d.j. In my view, he would be more comfortable in a big solid Dutch Colonial or a rambling late-Georgian vernacular. “Thornton Wilders,” we call these in our business, and we don’t have any in Sea-Brite. Spring Lake’s your ticket for that dream. But Clare’s recent life saga—which of course I’ve heard plenty about—has led him down new paths in search of new destinations. In that way, he is so much like us all. Clare is waiting beside my Realty-Wise sign (red block letters on a white field: “Realty” above, hyphen “Wise” below, plus the “Tel”—no “www,” no virtual tours, no talking houses, just like I like it, simple, satisfying, reliable, leading buyers toward a feeling of sanity, finality, and ultimate rightness). He turns and faces the house as I drive up, as if to allow that he’s been waiting but time doesn’t mean much to him. He’s driven down in one of his company’s silver Ford panel trucks, which sits in the driveway, “Only Connect Welding” painted in flowing orange script on the side. His schoolteacher wife, Estelle, dreamed it up, Clare says: “Something out of a book, I guess.” But Clare’s no mutton-fisted underachiever who married up. He owns a Silver Star with a gallantry garnish from Nam, retired out a major, went the E-E route at Stevens Tech, in Jersey City. He and Estelle bought a house, had two quick kids. Clare took the upward-tending track with Raytheon but decided that the laddered life was a rat race and took over his dad’s welding business in Troy Hills when the old man retired—with the proviso that he could change the name to something he liked. Clare is what we call a “Senior Boomer,” someone who’s done the course, done it creditably, set aside beaucoup savings, got his kids set up at a safe distance, experienced a conspicuous appreciation in the dollar value of his family home (mortgage paid off), and now wants something a helluva lot nicer before he gets too decrepit to notice it. What these people typically want varies, from a freestanding condo to a weekend home near the water to a “houseboat on the Seine”—a.k.a. something to park at a marina—or else a real, honest-to-God beach house like the one Clare’s now staring up at and about to enter: turn the key, dial up the Jacuzzi. (The owner-sellers, the Doolittles, who’re currently in Boca Grande, put their fingers into the millennial economic breezes earlier this fall and detected a cooling slowdown, and for that reason are ready to shift into municipal bonds and, conceivably, gold.) Clare’s other characteristic on the buyer’s profile is that three years ago (this, as usual, by his own candid recounting) he fell in love with somebody who wasn’t his wife, who was, in fact, a fresh hire at the welding company—someone named Bitsy or Betsy or Bootsy, I forget. Surprisingly enough, big domestic disruptions followed. The kids chose sides. Several loyal employees actually quit in disgust when “things” came out in the open. Welding damn near ceased. Clare and Estelle were entirely civil (“She was the easy part”). A sad divorce ensued. A marriage to the younger Bitsy, Bootsy, Betsy quickly followed—a life commenced that didn’t feel right from the instant they got to Aruba. One turbulent year passed. The young wife grew restive. (“Just like the goddam Eagles song,” Clare said.) She cut off all her hair, threw her nice new clothes away, decided to go back to school, figured out she wanted to become an archeologist and study Mesoamerican something or other. Somehow she discovered that she was brilliant, got herself admitted to the University of Chicago, and left New Jersey with the intention of morphing her and Clare’s odd union into something rare, free-floating, and completely modern. Only then Estelle discovered that she had multiple sclerosis (she’d moved to her sister’s in Port Jervis), which instantly galvanized Clare into seeing the fog lift, regaining his senses, and divorcing his student wife. (“A big check gets written, but who cares?”) He moved Estelle back down to Parsippany, and began devoting everything and every minute to her and her happiness, convinced that he’d never realized how lucky he was just to know her, and, with time now more precious and fleeting, there was none of it he cared to dick around with. (As unusual as this story seems, believe me—in the real-estate profession—it’s not so.) Enter, then, Sea-Brite, where Estelle vacationed as a child and always adored it. Nothing now was too good for her. Plus, in Clare’s estimation, our little town was probably a place where the two of them could die before the world fucked it up. I drove him past twenty houses two weeks ago. Some seemed “interesting and possible.” Most didn’t. No. 61, in fact, was the only one that truly caught his fancy, since the inside was already fitted out with a nursing home’s worth of shining disabled apparatus, including (despite all the levels) a mahogany side-stair elevator for when the dark days of disambulation drew near. Clare told me that if he liked it he’d buy it as is and give it to Estelle—who’s currently holding her own, with few symptoms—as a one-year re-wedding present. It makes a pretty story. “Dry as my Uncle Chester’s bones out here, Frank,” Clare says in his parched but sonorous Clint Eastwood voice, extending a leathery hand. Clare has the odd habit of giving me his left hand to shake. Something about severed tendons from Vietnam causing acute pain, etc., etc. It seems like an affectation and always makes me feel strange about which hand to give him back, but it’s over fast. Then Clare produces his steady, eyes-creased smile that conveys impersonal pleasure, crosses his long arms, and turns to look up at 61 Surf Road. I’m just about to say that the worst droughts are the ones where you occasionally get a little rain so that no one really takes them seriously and everyone ends up ignoring the fact that the aquifer’s way down and disaster looms. But Clare’s thinking only about this house (a good sign). The three-page color listing brochure I’m holding is ready to be proffered before we go in. Down Surf Road (there are only six similar houses), a bearded young man in yellow rubber coveralls is scrubbing down the sides of a white fibreglass fishing boat on a trailer, using an extended hose brush. A dark-blue “Bush-Cheney” sign stands in his little sandy yard. From back up the road I hear the screech of an electric sabre saw whanging through the filaments of a pine board, followed by the satisfying bops of hammers pounding nails in fast succession. These are my Hondurans. The cold seaside air here has both a fishy and a piney sniff to it. None of this, despite the steely, unpredictable, weather-prone November sky, makes for one bit of bad feeling in me. As I look up to see a squad of pigeons wheeling above and, far beyond, a jet contrail high, high, high, heading out to sea and Europe, I feel well placed here at my post, doing the thing I apparently do best, staying grounded, my duties conferring a pleasant, self-actualizing invisibility—the self as anthropologically perfect instrument, like the athlete who is said, if briefly, to “feel it” and become sleekly the task at hand. “Frank, tell me what this house’ll bring in, in the summer?” Clare asks. His mind is clickety-clicking, merits-demerits. I assume he’s talking about rent and not a quick flip. “Three thousand a week,” I say. Clare raises one of his folded arms, furrows his brow, puts his hand to his chin and rests it there. It is the classic gesture of contemplation, familiar to both General MacArthur and Jack Benny, and Clare manages to emanate both their moods at once—grave but also strangely comical. It is clearly Clare’s practiced look of public seriousness. My guess now is that we’ll never see inside No. 61, never get to appreciate all the disabled add-ons. When clients are motivated, they can’t wait to get in the door and start liking everything; whereas standing out in the road, talking about the house as you would if you were going to tear it down, is not a promising sign. Though, of course, I’m often wrong. “Boy, oh, boy,” Clare says, and shakes his head in dismay over modernity. “Three Gs.” “Pays your taxes and then some,” I say, a cold breeze waffling my listing brochure and stiffening my digits. “So who’s moving down to Sea-Brite now, Frank?” More standing, more staring. “Pretty much it’s a mix, Clare. People driven out of the Hamptons. And there’s some straight-out investment going on. No big springboard sales as yet. Topping wars haven’t got down this far. It’s pretty much a one-dimensional market still. That’ll change, of course, even with rates starting to creep. A five-hundred-thousand-dollar house is already hard to find.” I take a glance at my listing sheet, as if all this crucial data were printed there. I’m guessing that this brand of coded chalk talk will appeal to Clare-the-savvy-businessman, and make him think that I’m not really trying to sell him the Doolittles’ house but am just here to supply reliable, relevant, factual info and to make the world seem less a sinking miasma. Which is not far wrong. “I guess they’re not making any more oceanfront, are they?” “If they could, they would, Clare.” And I know plenty who’d love to try; the “interests” who want to “reclaim” Barnegat Bay and turn it into another Miracle Mile or a “racino.” “Fifty per cent of us already live within fifty miles of the ocean. Ocean County’s the St. Petersburg of the East Coast.” “How’s your business, Frank?” We’re both still standing beside the multi-this, multi-that No. 61, like two men tied to posts, awaiting the orderly arrival of a firing squad. “Good, Clare. Real estate’s always good by the ocean. Inventory’s my only problem. If I had houses like this every day, I’d be richer than I am.” Clare, at this instant, lets go a small, barely audible (but audible) fart, the sound like a strangled bird call from offstage. It startles me, and immediately makes me stare at its apparent point of origin, the seat of Clare’s khakis, as if blue smoke might be visible. It’s the ex-marine in Clare that makes such spontaneous emissions completely natural, completely unremarkable (by him), while letting anyone else know how intransigent a man he is and would be—in a love affair, in a business deal, in a divorce, in a war. (Possibly it’s my reference to being rich that’s forced this disparaging gesture from his insides.) “Tell me this, now, Frank,” Clare says. He’s stuffed both hands back in his khaki pockets. He’s wearing dark-brown-and-beige two-tone suède leisure sneakers of the sort you buy at shoe outlets or off the sale rack at big-box stores, and that look comfortable as all getout, but that I’d never buy because they’re what doozies wear, or else men who don’t care if they look like doozies. The Clint Eastwood look has a bit of doozie in it, I see. Old Clint might even wear a pair himself, so uncaring would he be of the world’s disapproval. “What kind of climate have we got? I mean, for buying a house?” I hear the workers up Cormorant Court all begin laughing now, and hammering comes to a halt. “Hom-bre!” I hear a voice say. “Es loco! Flaco y feo!” One needn’t wonder what they’re up to—something involving someone’s chile, no doubt. “Well, I’d say that’s a mixed picture, too, Clare.” Clare already knows everything I know, but wants to make me think that he takes what we’re doing seriously. I take me seriously. So this is just a waste of my time. Clare came into the picture saying that he was ready to buy a house sight unseen, to maximize the quality of life remaining for his dear-stricken-betrayed-but-timeless love. Only, like many humans, when it gets down to the cold nut-cutting, it’s do-re-mi his heart breaks over. “Money’s cheap down here, Clare,” I say. “The mortgage people have got some interesting product enhancements to shift the weight toward the back end—for a price, of course. Like I said, our inventory’s way off, which tends to firm up values. Most sales go for asking. You can read that technology’s ready to cycle down. Web sites are shutting. The Nasdaq’s off. Rates’ll probably shoot up after Christmas. You want to know if prices are ready to stabilize, and if you’re buying in at the top with no short-term resale potential. But you can’t take your cue from the wind, I guess. We had forty-per-cent price increases in two years. I don’t like to tell clients to go with their hearts, Clare. To be honest, I don’t know much about hearts.” Clare looks over at me, brown eyes narrowed near to closing—I’ve probably said too much, and may also have strayed over into the too personal, and this sleepy-eyed look is a recognition and a warning. I’ve found, though, that in business a quick veer into the soft tissue of the personal can confuse things in a good way. Clare, after all, has given me a giant earful. (No doubt he does it to everyone.) Now he’s just leery about making an awkward, unwanted “connection” with me. But ditto. I only want his money, for him to have a house, and for us both to feel good about it. “Can I show you something, Frank?” Clare says. He looks down at his gooberish two-tones, as if they were doing his thinking for him. “Absolutely.” “It won’t take a minute.” Clare’s already moving—in a bit of a slinking, pelvis-forward sort of way—along the side of the driveway, toward the back of the Doolittles’ beach house, between it and the next-door neighbors’, a house that’s boarded up for the winter and has a dead look about it: basement windows stuffed with pink Styrofoam insulation, sparse rhododendrons covered with miniature wooden A-frames against the coming winter gales, the basement door fitted with plyboard screwed into the frame. “I took a walk around here while I was waiting,” Clare is saying as he goes, but in a softer, more intimate voice, as if he didn’t want the wrong people hearing this. I’m following, my listing materials smushed in my windbreaker pocket. The Doolittles’ house is, I see, in need of upkeep. The side basement door is weathered and grayed, the veneer cracking at the bottom. A scimitar of glass has dropped out of a daylight basement window and shattered on the concrete footing. Something above us is whapping with a metal noise in the area of the soffits—a loose TV cable or a gutter strap is my guess—though when I look up I can’t see anything. The house could definitely do with a new owner and some knowledgeable attention. The Doolittles, who are plastic surgeons, have been spending their discretionary income elsewhere, and may soon have to pay for it. Clare leads me around to the back of the house, between the windowed, concrete basement wall and the ten-foot, dunelike sand bank that’s covered with dry, sparse-sprouted sea rocket from the summer. The dune is what keeps the living room from having a full ocean view, and probably sandbags the sale. Though I’ve put in the brochure that some “imagination” (i.e., money) dedicated to the living room (i.e., putting it on the third floor) would “open up spectacular vistas.” “O.K., look at this down here,” Clare says, almost whispering, bending, hands on knees, to designate by his notice where he means me to look. “See that?” he says gravely. I move in beside Clare, kneel beside his knee on the sand-and-gravel foundation border, and peer right where, closer now, he’s pointing at an outward-curving section of pale-gray concrete, visible beneath the sill and the footing. Here is one of the deeply driven piling piers on which the well-named Doolittles’ house is seated and made fast so that at times of climatological upset it’s not washed or blown or seismically destabilized and propelled straight out to sea like an ark. “See that?” Clare says, breathing out a captured breath. He gets down on his knees beside me like a scientist and brings his face down to the curved concrete pillar, putting his index finger to the hard surface. I see nothing unusual. “What is it?” I say. Though can it be anything good? “These piers are poured far away from here, Frank,” Clare says, conspiratorially. “Sometimes Canada. Sometimes upstate New York. The Binghamton area.” He is employing his index finger to scratch at some transparent sealant that’s been painted on the pier’s exterior but looks just like the regular surface of concrete. “If you pour your forms too early in the spring, or if you pour them when the humidity’s extremely high, well, you know what happens.” Clare looks over at me—we’re very close here—and smiles a closed-mouth gotcha smile. “What?” “They crack. They crack right away,” Clare says darkly. I see that he has a pale sliver of a scar right along the border of his Brillo-pad hairline. A vicious war wound, possibly, or something discretionary from his second marriage. “And if your manufacturer is not too scrupulous he doesn’t notice. And if he’s unscrupulous he notices and has the silicone sealer painted on and sells it to you anyway. And if your home builder or your general contractor isn’t paying attention, or if he’s been paid not to pay attention, or if his foreman happens to be Italian, then these piers get installed without anybody saying anything. And when the work gets inspected, when this kind of defect ought to show up—and it is a serious defect—it might be possible for it not to be noticed, if you get my drift. And then your house gets built, it stands up real well for about fifteen years. But because it’s on the ocean the salt and the moisture work on it. And then, suddenly—though it isn’t sudden, of course—Hurricane Frank blows up, a high tide comes in, the force of the water turns savage. And—boom—Bob’s your uncle.” Clare turns his head to me, where we’re crouched like spelunkers behind the musty, quicklime-smelling Doolittle house, which is built, I see, on much worse than shifting sand. It’s built on shitty pilings. “These pilings, Frank. I mean . . .” Clare sniffs a sniff of distaste and homeowner pity, while pressing his thin lips together. “I can see cracks, and this is just four to five inches showing. These people have real problems, unless you can find a sucker who’ll buy it sight unseen, or get an inspector who needs a seeing-eye dog.” I can smell Clare’s breath in these close quarters we’re keeping. It is sweet coffee breath, and makes me realize I’m cold and wishing I were two hundred miles from here. “It’s a problem, O.K.,” I say. I’m staring at the innocent-looking little curve of pier surface without, frankly, seeing anything amiss. The thought that Clare is full of shit, or that this is nothing more than a softening-up ploy for a lowball offer, naturally occurs to me, as does the idea that since I can’t see the crack I don’t have to bear the responsibility that attaches to it. A few stalwart ants, I notice, are scuttering around the lime-dusty foundation, no doubt taking in the air before the long subterranean winter’s commencement. “A problem. Definitely,” Clare says. “I was raised in a tract house, Frank. I’ve seen bad workmanship before.” He and I both are straggling to our feet. “What can you do about a problem like that, Clare?” I’m dusting off my knees with my cold hands, stuffing the listing sheet deeper into my pocket, since it clearly won’t be needed. I experienced a brief moment of panic when Clare revealed the cracked pier, as if this were my house and it was I who was in deep shit. Only now, a little airy-headed from standing up fast, I register pure exhilaration and a thrumming sense of good fortune and well-being that this is not my house, that my man was a board-certified U.Va. architect, not some fly-by-night shade-tree spec builder with a clipboard fat with plan-book blueprints, who was in cahoots with the cement trade, the Teamsters, the building inspectors, and City Hall. In other words, a typical New Jersey small businessman. “I’m fine.” These words—in a murmur—somehow escape my lips. “I’m just fine.” “Oh, there’s things you can do,” Clare is saying. “Expensive things.” He is for some reason looking closely at me, into my eyes, his fingers pinching up a welt of poplin on my jacket sleeve. “You all right, old boy?” I hear this. Also I hear what sound like youthful boy and girl voices beyond the sand-dune bunker beside us. It all seems to merge from a single source, which is the cold wind. “You look a little green, my friend,” Clare’s friendly voice says. I’m having a “subsequent predictable episode.” The titanium seeds in my prostate are obviously not as close to dormancy as my Mayo urologist, Dr. Psimos—he of the “I’d Rather Be in Sturgis” T-shirt—irresponsibly predicted. This, of course, is information that Clare doesn’t need. “Stood up too fast,” I say, cheeks gone cold and rubbery, my scalp itchy and crawly, my fingers flickering numbly in the air. “Chemicals,” Clare says. “No telling what the hell they spray back here. The same thing’s in sarin gas is in D-Con, so I hear.” “I guess,” I say, woozy. I’m keeping myself upright now. “Let’s grab some air,” Clare says, and roughly, with his bony left fist, begins hauling me up the dune behind us, our shoes sinking in sand, my recovered balance a bit pitched forward, my neck and back breaking a warm sweat. “Maybe you got vertigo,” Clare says as he guys me up toward the dune top, his long legs doing the work for two. “Men our age get that. It goes away.” “How old are you?” I say, submissive. Clare is tugging me forward. “Sixty-five.” “I’m fifty-six.” I feel ninety-six. “Good grief.” “What’s the matter?” Sand’s in my deck shoes and it feels quite good. His doozie sneakers are probably loaded, too. “I must look a lot younger than I am.” “I was thinking you did,” I say. “Who knows how old anybody is anymore, Frank?” We’re now at the top. The steely-blue, flat-surfaced Atlantic is beyond the wide low-tide beach. A smudge of gray-brown crud hangs just at the horizon. In the middle distance, a boatful of day fishermen is anchored, their short poles abristle off both sides. The small breeze seems to blow straight through my ears and brings a shiver that makes me understand that for late November I’m dressed too lightly. Of course, I believed I’d be inside by now. “I look at twenty-five-year-olds and then somebody tells me they’re fifteen,” Clare natters on. “I look at thirty-five-year-olds who look fifty. I give up.” “Me, too,” I say, feeling slightly replenished, my heart still throbbing from our ascent into the plein air. Twenty yards in front of us and taking no notice of our appearance like foreign legionnaires topping the rise, a group of teens, eight or nine of them, are involved in a spirited volleyball session. Their single white orb rises slowly upon the whitish sky, while one side shouts, “Mine!” “Set, seeeet-it!” “Bridget-Bridget-Bridget! Yours! Yours! Aw-riiight!” They’re boys and girls of a certain immature teen age: the boys tall and swimmer-lanky and blond; the girls beautiful, tanned, rugged, just back from Hawaii and Ibiza. All are in shorts, sweaters, and sweatshirts, and barefoot. These are the local kids who grew up on the shore but went away to Choate and Milton—who left little Sea-Brite behind as lowly townie-ville but are back now, if briefly, among their old friends (the privileged few), spending the Thanksgiving holidays with vivid dreams of Yale and Dartmouth. Too bad, I think, my kids are not that age again, instead of “grown.” Possibly I could do my part better now. Though possibly not. “You back in working order?” Clare says. He’s observing the volleyballers, who pay us no attention. We are the invisibles—like their parents. “Thanks,” I say. “Sorry.” “Vertigo,” Clare says again, and gives his large, overly helical ear a good stern grinding with the heel of his hand. He clearly likes being up here on the dune, as anyone would. It’s approximately the view one would get from a “reimagined” floor three of the big-but-compromised Doolittle house behind us. Maybe his mind’ll change now. Maybe cracked piers aren’t so vexatious after all. Things change with new perspective. “You’re from California, you don’t count,” one girl volleyballer says breezily into the breeze. “Yeah, I count,” a blond boy answers. “I absolutely count. Ro-tate, ro-tate.” “Could you entertain a quasi-philosophical question, Frank?” Clare Suddruth asks. He has squatted now atop the dune and scooped up a handful of sand, as though assaying it, weighing it, sampling its texture. “Well,” I say. “Pertains to real estate. Don’t worry. It’s not about my sex life. Or yours. That’s not philosophical, is it? That’s Greek tragedy.” “Not always,” I say, alert to an incoming heart-to-heart that I lack the stomach for. Clare narrows his creased submariner’s eyes at the brown horizon murk and spits down into the sand he’s just released. “Do you imagine, Frank, that anything could happen in this country to make just normal not be possible again?” He continues facing eastward, as though addressing an analyst sitting in a chair behind him. “I actually tend to think that nothing of a catastrophic nature can really happen. Too many checks and balances. We’ve all of us manufactured reality so well. Nothing can really change. You know? Drop a bomb, we bounce back. What hurts us makes us stronger. D’you believe that?” Clare lowers his strong chin, then cranks his intense squinting gaze up at me, wanting an answer in kind. His kind. His kind of stagy seriousness. Semper Fi. Iwo. Guadalcanal. Bataan. The Marianas, stretching out to the pulverized but never-say-die Khe Sanh firebase of ’68. All the things I somehow missed in my rather easy youth. “I don’t, Clare.” “No. Of course not. Me either,” Clare says abruptly. “I want to believe it. And that scares the shit right out of me. What hurts me hurts me! And don’t you think they’re not sitting over there in those other countries that hate us licking their chops at what they see us doing over here, fucking around trying to decide which of these dopes to make President? You think that these people here”—a toss of the Clare Suddruth head toward crumbling 61 Surf Road—“have foundation problems? We’ve got foundation problems. It’s not that we can’t see the woods for the trees—we can’t see the woods or the fuckin’ trees.” Clare expels through his manly schnoz a breath so heavy and poignant a Clydesdale might’ve breathed it. “What does it have to do with real estate?” “That’s just where I enter the picture, Frank,” Clare says. “It’s the circuit my mind runs on. I want to make Estelle’s last years happy. I think a house on the ocean’s a good thing. Then I start to think about New Jersey being a target for some nut with a bomb or whatever. And, of course, I know death’s a pretty simple business. I’ve seen it. I don’t fear it. And I know Estelle’s probably gonna face it before I do. But I go on looking at houses as if a catastrophe—or death—can’t really happen, right up until, like now, I have to concede that it can happen. And then I’m shocked. Really paralyzed.” “What is it that shocks you, Clare?” I say sympathetically. “You know everything there is to be afraid of. You seem ahead of the game to me.” Clare just shakes his head in grim wonder. “I’m sitting up in bed, Frank—honest to God—up in Parsippany. Estelle’s asleep beside me. And what I just go cold thinking about is: if something happens, you know, something bad—a bomb—can I ever sell my fucking house? And, if I buy a new one, then what? Will property values mean anything? I mean, where the hell are we then? Where’re we supposed to escape to? It’s not death, Frank. Death’s pretty much a snap.” “I never thought about that, Clare.” Though as a philosophical question, in my view, it’s a lot like “Why the solar system?” You sure couldn’t make such a worry a contingency in a buy-sell agreement: “Sale contingent on no disaster ever rendering all real property as worthless as tits on a rain barrel.” In realty terms, this kind of worry is way beside the point. “I guess you wouldn’t think about it,” Clare says. “Why would you? I know perfectly well it all has to do with Estelle being sick, and my other relationship ending, plus my age. I just fear the circumstances of my life going to hell. Boomety-boom.” Clare is still staring out to sea, above the heads of the lithe and perfect and perfectly untroubled young volleyers—a grizzled old Magellan who doesn’t like what he’s at long last discovered. Boomety-boom. Clare’s problem, of course, isn’t a philosophical problem. It just makes him feel better to think it is. His problem with his circumstances is itself circumstantial, the usual occasion for worry: he’s made some normal human mistakes, suffered some minor setbacks, taken some shots, and he just doesn’t want to fuck up again, or miss an important cue or a warning detail. It’s standard; an all too usual form of buyer’s remorse—only Clare’s experiencing it prior to sale. If he would just take a plunge (always the Realtor’s fondest wish for mankind), banish fear, let loose the reins, think that instead of having suffered error and loss he’s survived them and that today is the first day of his new life, then he’d be fine and dandy. In other words, embrace in full the permanent period of life, live not as though he were going to die tomorrow but as though he might live. But how to explain this to Clare without arousing the suspicion that I’m just another smarmy, eel-slippery, promise-’em-anything yokel, hyperventilating to unload a house that’s crumbling from the ground up? You can’t. I can’t. Dazzled and enervated as I feel out here at the edge of the continent, I know the Doolittles’ house has serious probs, may in fact be heading toward a tear-down situation in a year or two. I’d never sell it to Clare but instead will have to be the reluctant bearer of sombre financial news to the Doolittles down in Boca. Clare will simply have to figure this out for himself. All I can reliably do is show him more houses till he either does or wanders off into the landscape. (I wonder, just now, if Clare’s a Blue State or a Red State in the current debacle. Politics is a threshold we don’t cross in my business, though I’ve noticed that most people who look at houses these days are Republicans.) Somewhere, as if out of the spheres, I hear what sounds very much like the “Marine Corps Hymn” played on an electric xylophone. “Dum-dee-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dee-dum, dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-dum-doom.” It’s surprisingly loud, even here on the dune top in the cold salt breeze. The volleyball kids stop rotating and setting and spiking, their heads turned toward us, as if they’d registered something weird yet also weirdly consoling—something from home, or further back in the racial fog. What? Clare goes fumbling with a little black hand-tooled quick-draw holster under his jacket, attached to his belt like a snub-nosed .38. It is his cell phone issuing a call to arms and valor—unmistakable as only his ring in any airport waiting facility or supermarket deli section. “Clare Suddruth,” he says in an unexpected, abrupt command voice—an urgent message from the higher-ups to the troops in the thick of it down here. His snapped answer is aimed into an impossibly tiny (and idiotic) red Nokia exactly like the ones the prep-school girls have in their Tommy Hilfiger beach bags. “Right,” Clare snaps, putting his other hand to his ear like Rudy Vallee, lowering his chin in regimental attention. He steps off a few yards along the berm. Every single particle of his bearing announces, “O.K., now, this is important.” “Yep, yep, yep.” For me, though, it is a freeing moment and welcome, unlike most cell-phone interruptions, when the uninvolved bystander feels like a condemned man, waiting on the trapdoor, all trussed, harnessed, eyes clenched, expecting the drop, while the bearded fat man in a top hat permits himself to be momentarily distracted by the starlings swooping over the prison yard in an especially lovely formation. (The worst thing, of course, about hearing others yakkety-yak on their cell phones—and the reason I don’t own one—is the sullying recognition that everybody’s doing, thinking, saying pretty much the same things you are, and none of it’s too interesting.) This moment, though, strands me all out of context, maroons me to a good rejuvenating sensation that I didn’t expect to be awaiting me, a relief and a tacit pledge that underneath it all—my moment of syncope, my stillborn house-showing, my physical condition, my underlying condition, my overarching condition—beneath it all is still a broad fertile plain I can see across to a white farmhouse and willows and a pond that the sky traffics over, and where the sun is in its soft morning quadrant and there is peace upon the land. Even the prep-school kids seem suddenly excellent, hopeful, and doing exactly what they should be. Two women speed-walkers in woollen long shorts and sweats go herky-jerky businesslike down the strand. I am frankly happy in this lost moment. I wish that Clare could know it, too, since with just a glimpse, permitted by a kind but impersonal life force, many things (if not all) can briefly sit down in these proper, proportionate places, and I (at least) can hear myself breathing to myself, “It’s enough. It’s enough. It’s enough.” “Yep, yep, yep.” Clare’s still internalizing whatever is to be internalized. Get those fresh troopers up where they can see the back side of that hill and start raining hellfire down on the sorry bastards. And don’t be back to me till that whole area’s secured and you can give me a full report, complete with casualties. Theirs and ours. Got that? Yep, yep. “I’ll be home around one, sweetheart. I’ll fix lunch.” (It is a homelier communiqué than I imagined.) He punches off his little red Nokia and returns it to its holster without turning around. He is facing north now, up the shore toward Asbury, twenty miles off. His decision to stand away and now stare away gives him the aura of a man composing himself. “Everything copacetic?” I say, and smile at his back in case he should suddenly turn around and face me. A friendly face is always welcome. “Yes, sure,” Clare says, and does turn, does see my welcoming mug—a mug that says, “We aren’t looking at a house anymore, we’re just out here together, taking the air.” “It was my wife,” he says, stepping back toward me. The lady power-walkers are receding into the distance now. The volleyballers have formed a claque beside one net post and are laughing. I hear one of their cell phones ringing, a gleeful rilling that says “Yes, yes, yes!” “Estelle—well, you know her name.” Clare glances toward the calm sea and its white filigree of sudsy surf, where terns are diving toward tiny frightened mackerel. The day fishermen’s boat has moved farther south, down the beach. “When I’m gone for very long, it’s as if she thinks I’m not coming back.” Clare laves his big hands together, scouring off some residue of the call. “Of course, I did go away and didn’t come back. So you can’t blame her.” “Sounds like it’s all different now.” “Oh, yeah.” Clare runs his scoured hands back through his steely salt-and-pepper hair. He is a handsome man—even if part doozie, part escape artist, part fearful shrinker from the world’s clattering woes. We have much in common, though I’m not as handsome. “What were we gassing about?” he says. The call has erased most of that. A good sign. “I was bending your ear about something.” He smiles at me and seems abashed yet happy not to remember. A glimpse of my wide plain with the house, pond, willows, etc., has perhaps briefly been his. “We were talking about foundations, Clare.” “I thought we were talking about fears and commitments.” Clare casts a wistful eye at No. 61—its weathered soffits, its dubious solar panels, its sagging gutter-works. “Same difference,” I say. “Well,” Clare says, “we can let it go by, I guess.” “O.K.” “Somebody else’ll want this place.” “Somebody will,” I say. “You can bet on that. There aren’t many things you can bet on, but on that you can.” “Good deal,” Clare says. We find other things to talk about, other plans, as I walk him back out to his Only Connect truck. Whoever said that a character should possess the incalculability of life wasn’t far wrong. In fact, if you ask me, he knew his stuff better than most. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Miracle	“Don’t be surprised if he’s a little blue when he comes out.” “A little . . . blue. All right.” “I mean it,” the doctor says. “Before they start breathing properly, before the oxygen gets flowing. I don’t mean a bit blue, like a bruise. I mean blue blue, like this.” He taps her elastic-waist jeans. “We’re not anticipating any problems, of course,” he says. “But it’s best to be prepared.” “I won’t be surprised,” Julia promises. “I’ll act bored.” “Atta girl.” When the baby comes out, two weeks later, he doesn’t make a sound. Not a peep. She thinks he’s dead, even though she can see his arms waving. And he’s not blue. He’s black. “I mean, like, coal black, ink black,” Jonas says in the hospital room afterward. “I saw,” she reminds him, her hands folded on her gigantic tender belly. It’s as if there were another baby still in there. “I mean, pure black, Julia, like a color that doesn’t occur naturally, in nature, you know? It reminds me of those poor penguins after the oil spill, all black and greasy with their poor little flippers sticking out.” “Wings. Penguins are birds.” “And he came out with all that white gunk on him. And the cord was all . . . thick.” “What did you expect? Look at your own belly button.” “I thought it would be, like, a thread.” He’s ashamed because he was invited to cut the cord but hadn’t been able to bring himself to do it. She wants to see her baby, but the doctor whisked him away to check him over, calling back, “Ten fingers and ten toes. He seems fine.” “Maybe it’s a mutation, or he’s, like, a reverse albino,” Jonas says. “Don’t use that word.” “Mutation” makes her think of swamp monsters, nuclear accidents, hands growing out of heads. The doctor hadn’t said exactly where those ten fingers and toes were. “Don’t get mad, but . . . he is mine, isn’t he? I don’t even need to ask this, right?” Finally. She’s impressed he managed to restrain himself this long. “Of course.” She thinks, naïvely, that this will be the end of it. When they come and put the baby in her arms she feels tremendous relief. She kisses his head. The hair, plastered down before, is now dry and soft, perfectly straight and downy and golden. It glows metallic, glittery, like tinsel. His eyes are a startling pale blue, the color of ice, of cataracts. A lactation coach, a nursing nurse, has come along to help her with the first time. “He doesn’t like it!” Julia cries when the baby turns his face from her breast. “I taste bad!” “He just doesn’t know how,” the coach says, soothingly. “He has to learn.” “I thought it was instinctive. And why is he so quiet?” “His ears and throat look fine. We’ll do a cat scan later just to be sure. But it seems that he’s just a calm, sweet-tempered baby. He doesn’t want to cry.” “And his color?” Jonas asks. The nurse glances at Julia. “Well, I think that’s something for the two of you to discuss, isn’t it?” After she leaves, Julia says, “He’s not unnatural. There are plenty of people in the world who are just this color.” But she can’t help thinking that he does look unearthly. His skin has the solid, inorganic sheen of obsidian, an iridescence like oil. Jonas says, “What are we going to name it? Him?” “But we already decided on Robert.” “I changed my mind. He doesn’t look like a Bobby, does he? He looks more like, say, an Alphonse.” “Alphonse? Why Alphonse?” “What’s wrong with Alphonse?” “It’s atrocious.” “The black kid at my high school was named Alphonse.” “The black kid. There was only one?” “What, like it’s my fault there was only one? I was friends with the guy. That baby looks a hundred times more like an Alphonse than a Bobby.” “But you insisted. You wanted him to have your father’s name.” “I changed my mind.” They name him Gabriel. Gabe. They’re on their way home, Gabe strapped into the new car seat in back, when Jonas explodes. “This is all your fault!” He sprays “f”s and “t”s all over the windshield. “Why is it my fault?” “You . . . You . . . That cigarette you smoked two months in! I saw you! The bathroom was full of smoke! Don’t deny it!” “It made me nauseous. I didn’t even finish.” “And the weird food, all the chocolate and burned toast. I kept telling you the burned part was carcinogenic, but did you listen?” “I had cravings.” “And the chocolate. I came home and you were, like, gnawing on a big hunk of baker’s chocolate. The bitter stuff.” “You’re being—” “And the poppy-seed bagels? I kept telling you those were the exact same poppy seeds they extract opium from, but did you listen?” “We can do a paternity test, if you want. If that would make you feel better.” His cheek pulses in and out. She says, “Maybe we both have some African ancestors, way, way back. It’s some combination of recessive genes . . . ” “I don’t have any African ancestors.” “We’re all mongrels.” “Not me. Maybe you, you’ve got those swarthy cousins . . . ” “Maybe I am. Would that make any difference?” He doesn’t answer that. “Maybe they switched babies at the hospital. It happens all the time.” “We saw him come out.” “I’m not so sure. I go color-blind when I panic.” “He looks just like you.” “Quit it. He doesn’t look a speck like me.” They do not have a paternity test. “I trust you, honey. I trust you completely. This proves it, right? Right?” She thinks he’s afraid, afraid of what he might find out. About her, about himself. He’d rather not know. “Besides,” he says, “I don’t want them to have to stick the baby again. That would be cruel, right, to take blood from a baby for a pointless little test? What color do you think his blood is, anyway?” Friends and neighbors stop by, bringing gifts and cards with cherubic pink babies on them, saying “wow,” and “hmmm,” and “gee.” “He’s a big one,” they all say. His size is a safe topic, uncontroversial, undeniable. “Do you think his eyes will change?” one neighbor, who has four children of her own, says. “They often do.” “I didn’t know that,” Julia says. “Oh yes. They all have blue eyes to start. Later they sometimes turn green or gray or brown.” The vagueness of the pronoun confuses Julia; for a moment she wants to ask where she can find some of these green, gray, or brown children for Gabe to play with. Her friend Hugo brings over a miniature basketball and backboard. He hands the box over proudly, then snatches it back after he gets a peek at Gabe in his playpen. “I’m sorry,” he blurts. “I didn’t know. I didn’t mean anything by it.” “By what?” she says. Gabe’s far too young for it, but she’d been looking forward to playing with the toy herself. “I was planning to get one of those toy doctor kits, I was . . . ” Friends stop by, but only her friends. Not Jonas’s. His parents don’t visit. His mother is ill and can’t travel. Julia knows this, but still it rankles. Her best friend, Missy, comes bringing gifts for Gabe and also for her. They go up to the nursery where Gabe is napping. “Whoa!” Missy says admiringly. “You bad girl! Is Jonas mad?” “No. He’s not mad at all.” “Wow. He must be totally pussy-whipped.” Julia cringes. She’s always hated the expression. It makes her picture a whip cracking out between her legs like a demonic tail. “How did you choose ‘Gabriel’? Is that the father’s name?” Even Missy doesn’t believe her. It would be so much easier if there were a fancy, scientific-sounding label for it, So-and-So’s syndrome, a catchy set of initials. If only she had some statistics, if only she could say, “Just one child in ten million is born like this every year,” then it would sound better—she would seem lucky, a lottery winner. Instead he’s just a mistake, like an error in accounting, upsetting the balance, and people would rather erase him than do the math again, reconfigure the equations to make him work out. The first time she brings Gabe back to bed with her, Jonas sits up. “What are you doing?” “He can’t sleep.” “Nurse him, then.” “He’s lonely. Where are you going?” “I’m afraid I’ll roll over in my sleep and crush him.” “You won’t.” “I can’t even see him in the dark. He blends right in.” He insists on moving to the couch. Jonas won’t change diapers. He never smiles when Gabe burps or chews his toes; he simply stares disinterestedly, as if his son were a specimen in a lab or an anthropological sample, performing curious local customs. At night she is the one to get up, every time, when they hear Gabe rustling around. “He’s just hungry,” Jonas insists. “I’m not the milk machine.” She hopes he will come around eventually. “He’s gone,” she says to the empty house. Panic rising in her throat. She’s running downstairs. Running upstairs again. Wet footprints everywhere. Classic nightmare—curtains billowing around an open window. The stark crib—no blankets, no suffocating toys, totally sids-proof—empty of Gabe as well. She put him down for just five minutes while she took a shower. Just five minutes. That’s what they all say. An interval plenty wide enough for disaster to come plowing through. Downstairs again. Cold air on her wet back. Maybe an animal got in the window? Dashes back up to the nursery. There’s a crouching, furry shape on the floor— Her sopping towel. “Jonas,” she says. Jonas isn’t here. Did he sneak in and take Gabe away somewhere? She hears stealthy movement downstairs. She takes a step and it stops. She takes another. It’s listening, waiting for her. She goes downstairs, cupping her heavy breasts. They’re aching from all the jouncing around. There’s a rustle in the living room. A surprise party, friends in paper hats crouching behind chairs? She crosses the threshold choking on dread. And sees Gabe, sitting in the special vibrating seat he loves. He’s panting a little as he bobs his head, trying to make it go. She snatches him up. He’s burning hot against her cold, clammy skin. “You just forgot,” Jonas says when he comes home that night. “You’re overtired. You thought you put him in the crib, but really you put him in the seat.” “What, I just misplaced him?” Jonas is smiling, smirking, not meeting her eyes. He’s trying to provoke her. He did this, somehow. Let him gloat. Her one small satisfaction is that if he smuggled Gabe downstairs he must have touched him to do it, and that’s a first. Jonas turns to his friends; he has a few left over from his grad-school days who are stretching out their dissertations as long as possible, with whom he likes to drink beer and sit around pontificating. They spend hours arguing movies, politics, debating who would win in death matches. Superman versus Batman? Bear versus shark? The U.S. versus an alliance of North Korea, Canada, and Vatican City? A sort of men’s club. A men’s club for men who never hunt, who hate sports, and who are fanatical about their obscure music choices. This becomes his support group. The house feels more comfortable without him. She watches tennis tournaments, Gabe nestled in her arms. White-clad people grunt, thrust, grow angry, swear daintily. The ball snaps back and forth with satisfying pops. Anxious crouching runners dart out to snare stray balls. There is a pleasing rhythm, as if even the players, despite their outbursts, were following a script. “I could watch this all day,” she tells Gabe. Some days she does. One evening Jonas comes home late, smelling of beer and cigarette smoke. He stands swaying in the bedroom doorway, his shirt unbuttoned one more button than usual. She wonders about him driving. She’ll say something about it tomorrow. “Tell me honestly. Did you have an affair with a black man?” “No.” “Not with Martin?” “Martin’s gay.” “So you’re saying if he wasn’t gay you’d want to . . . ” “No!” “Aliens, then. Don’t get mad! Just think about it for a minute. It happens all the time.” “Aliens? I’m beginning to think I’m married to one.” His chubby legs, his downy blond hair like chick fluff, his bottom in his saggy diapers, his perfect ears. The way he watches everything, his pale eyes full of calm inquiry. He smiles, he does it all the time, though she knows everyone would tell her that it’s too soon, that it’s only a burp, or a twitch, or a trick of the light. He gets fretful sometimes, screwing up his face and batting himself with his fists. She takes him to the pediatrician, who looks searchingly between his legs and says, “Bad case of diaper rash.” “But I don’t see anything.” “With him it’s harder to see the redness. There’s a cream you should try.” The doctor is a tall woman with a mass of striking mahogany-colored hair that she always wears knotted on top of her head and held in place with two chopsticks or knitting needles. This arrangement seems dangerous to Julia; she keeps picturing eyeballs poked out, babies impaled. And yet the hair was a major factor in choosing this doctor. Julia longs to see it unknotted, trailing on the floor. She hopes, maybe one day when they are more friendly, that she can ask to see it, and that the doctor, smiling, will oblige her. “You need to be very vigilant with this sort of thing,” the doctor is saying. “With this skin, bruises are harder to spot. You’ll have to check him for other signs.” “He still never cries. Not a sound.” “We can’t find any reason for it. He’s just quiet. You’re lucky. A perfect baby.” She keeps thinking, for some reason, about the professor in her art-history class. Going on and on about negative space, how sculpture is about the skin, that edge where substance and absence meet. How the presence of empty space, a void, causes a solid object to reveal itself. Gabriel stares, pupils floating in near-white irises like flecks trapped in ice. He can be so still, sometimes, as if holding his breath. A statue of a child. When she sees other children she’s shocked by the noise, the frenzied motion. One day she sees a neighbor’s child squirming in his stroller, bucking against the straps, and thinks he’s having a seizure. “Hyperactive,” she tells Gabe, whose motions are as slow and deliberate as a chess player’s. “Not like you.” In the middle of the night she reads to him, books she loved as a child. She knows he doesn’t understand, but the sound of her voice puts him to sleep. One night she reads: The gypsies came and stole the child away in the dead of night. They came all a-creeping, silent and slinking. It used to happen all the time, you know, every family had a story of a dear little lost one. But most people don’t know that it still goes on. The gypsies take only the naughty, the pretty children. Children are so ugly nowadays. They carried the children off in great sacks, bouncing against their backs, to the gypsy market where they were sold to the diamond mines where the shafts are too small for a grown man, or to the factories that need tiny fingers to tighten screws. Or to the circuses to feed the lions and tigers. We like the circus, the children said. We like lions and tigers. O-ho, the gypsies said, they will like you too. It’s an old book, full of racial stereotypes, grisly violence. She’s surprised by how frightening it is. Long after Gabe dozes off, she sits up, reading ahead, unable to sleep, afraid to turn the light off. The glowing yellow eyes in the illustrations follow her around after she closes the book. “Let’s have another baby,” Jonas says. “But not so soon.” “I want to start it now.” Pushing her to the bed and bouncing her down. “A little girl? Hunh? As soon as possible. I want to see . . . ” “You want to see what color the next one will be?” “Let’s see if we’re capable of producing a normal baby. Don’t you want to know?” “No,” she said. “No. Not like this.” Gabe is quiet in the nursery. Jonas pushes her down ungently. He’s not rough; he’s been much rougher in the past, when they played around at wrestling and manhandling each other. But it scares her now. She goes limp, pictures a rabbit in a dog’s mouth, carried so gently the teeth don’t break the skin. She imagines she can hear Gabe’s breathing. When he’s done he says, “Oh honey, oh sweetie, I’m sorry. I didn’t know you were still sore there. It’s been months—I thought you were O.K. by now.” “It’s fine,” she says mechanically and totters to the bathroom to wipe herself off. She has her period, but she won’t tell him that. Let him think he’s hurt her. The next day he brings her flowers, a recording of the Brahms lullaby, a brick of baker’s chocolate, and a bouquet of spinach leaves. The flowers’ scent is so strong it nauseates her. The music makes her want to smash something. The spinach is a mystery until she remembers Jonas reading her something about folic acid, conception, healthy embryos in the early stages. They don’t talk about it; it’s as though it hadn’t happened. She’d only meant to guilt-trip him a little, but now she realizes that she’s set a dangerous precedent. Jonas didn’t hurt her, but he thought he did. And she let him. Now he thinks he can get away with it. Now it will be easier for him to do it again. But it won’t be again; it will be the first time. Gabe glares at Jonas over his high-chair tray, his hairless brows wrinkled. “He’s fussy this morning,” she says, though he doesn’t look fussy—he looks like a stern Buddha passing judgment. He knows. “Those eyes,” Jonas says and hides behind the tent of his newspaper. Julia thinks of the storybook gypsy eyes. She keeps thinking she sees them staring out of the shrubbery in the yard. She goes to lift Gabe out of the high chair and realizes she can’t; the angle’s awkward, but it’s more than that. He doesn’t look any bigger, but he seems to weigh twice as much, as though there were a magnetic force pulling him toward the earth. She waits until Jonas leaves for the day, so she can brace herself, heave, and strain in private. Julia’s in the checkout line at the grocery store, Gabe strapped in a pouch against her chest. It’s an effort to stand up straight. She’s staring at the headlines of the tabloids—“mother of septuplets wants to name them all steve,” “local man buries family alive in back yard then plants tulips,” “lose twenty pounds in three days with miracle shad diet,” “iowa crop circles indicate location of missing child”—when a bejewelled hand enters her line of vision. The hand descends on Gabe’s head, fondling his hair in a proprietary way. “His hair’s dry,” the woman says. “You need to use conditioner on him.” She’s an older black woman with short hair and large earrings and enormous unblinking eyes. She has a bale of Huggies in her cart. So does Julia. Huggies are on sale. “It always looks like that.” “That’s what I’m saying. It’s all dry. He needs conditioning. You people don’t understand.” “I’ll try it.” She won’t. She likes it this way. She both resents the woman’s authoritative handling of Gabe’s head and feels strangely grateful. Take me in, she wants to say. Take me home. Tell me what to do. Gabe’s black, she thinks, but he’s not black. Or is he? Is he old enough to notice these things yet? Maybe he would feel more at home among black people. Why doesn’t she have more black friends? She ought to have more of them. Maybe that’s what she should do—infiltrate, ingratiate herself. Make friends with women like this one, who seems so sure of the right thing to do. “You can’t have the boy going around looking like Buckwheat. A blond Buckwheat. I can’t believe you put peroxide on a baby, poor thing.” “He was born like that.” “Listen,” the woman says, stepping closer, with a confidential air. “I appreciate what you’re trying to do and all, but I’m sorry, it’s not right. You’re misguided. You’re hurting more than helping. The child’s going to grow up all confused about what he is.” “What do you think I should do?” “Why couldn’t you adopt a nice white child? It’s good of you to want to give some child a home, but why not one of your own kind? The boy’s going to end up feeling like he doesn’t fit in anywhere. There’s no lonelier feeling. He needs his black community.” “He’s not adopted.” “Oh, really?” The woman takes in Julia’s limp colorless hair, the blue veins showing through her pale skin. The kind of pale that prompts strangers to ask if she’s just given blood, if she’d like to lie down. “Really? Well, that must have been the blackest black man in the universe! Black-hole black!” The friendly condescension has turned in a second to rancor. There’s nowhere to go in the narrow chute between racks of magazines and bubble gum. Heads in other lines are starting to turn. Gabe is struggling, clawing at her. She tries to comfort him. He fights as though he were trying to escape. She looks at Gabe, at the black woman, trying to see kinship. But the woman is about a hundred shades lighter than Gabe, a warm, rich brown. The closest thing to Gabe’s color is the black of the checkout conveyor belt. She feels a foolish grin spreading over her face. Her knees buckling. Jonas has talked about how it would be easier for him if Gabe had some dread disease. She can see what he means. Jonas wants to fight, he wants a distinct enemy. He wants to donate a kidney, argue with doctors, spend nights in a hospital drinking bad coffee, scream at the insurance agency. He wants heroics, tragedy, not the constant petty battles of the day-to-day. “He must have been Mister Super-Negro, Mister Out-of-Africa,” the woman chortles. “Oh, lord.” Julia calls Missy and says, “He’s getting worse and worse.” “Worse how?” “All he does now is sleep, eat, and give me these evil-eye looks.” “Are you thinking about splitting up?” “No! I could never . . . ” “But you keep saying you can’t stand being around him.” She sighs. “It’s terrible, but sometimes I think I’d be happy if he just . . . disappeared. It would be so much easier.” “Then you could get back together with that black guy,” Missy says. “You never told me his name.” “I keep telling you, there isn’t any . . . wait, what was that?” “Something at your end.” She knows what it was: the muffled click of a receiver stealthily put down, and downstairs in the kitchen the lumbering tread of a man trying to tiptoe. They lie in bed, on their backs, watching reflections of headlights glide across the ceiling. Blank-faced and wide awake, two paper dolls. “You’re such a hypocrite,” Jonas says. “You said it yourself. I heard you. I don’t know why you get so mad at me for wishing it.” “Said what?” “That it would be nice. If he just. Went away.” She stops going to the grocery store. She makes lists for Jonas, and he buys double of everything, to minimize shopping trips. Bananas rot in the kitchen, the refrigerator is crammed with fat-free margarine, and there’s a wall of Huggies in the corner of the nursery that goes all the way up to the ceiling, like a barricade. “Why won’t you just hold him?” she says. “I’m afraid I’ll break him.” “Don’t you want to?” “I’m afraid of what I might do.” And she’s afraid, too, that if he picks Gabe up he’ll feel the strange denseness, the rock-solidness of him that is making him harder and harder to bear. She lugs Gabe to the pediatrician and is horrified to discover that the doctor has cut off her hair. She now has a mannish crewcut that reveals the irregular bumps of her skull. Julia feels betrayed. The doctor inspects Gabe. “There’s something strange. About his weight,” Julia says. “I’m not really concerned about that right now,” the doctor says. “I’d rather focus on this.” She gestures at Gabe’s arms, then his chest, then the back of his head. “What? I don’t see anything.” “Bruising. It’s common, at this age, when they’re first crawling around and bumping into things, but . . . ” “He doesn’t crawl around,” Julia says. “He just sits there.” The doctor looks at her probingly. “Are you sure you’re not being too rough with him?” she says. “You might be hurting him without realizing it.” “I’d know! He’d tell me!” Julia says hotly, privately wondering how. Write little notes? Use sign language? The doctor is silent so long that they both hear Julia’s stomach make a squealing, spiralling sound. “Just remember to be gentle,” the doctor says finally. “Watch the bruises.” She makes Julia look closely, pointing out the blacker-than-black marks that she says are sore spots. She talks about the “thumb-shaped” bruises on his chest, and the “finger-sized” ones on his back. “I’d like to do another cat scan,” she says, but just then an unearthly howling arises from another examining room. The doctor dashes out, and Julia grabs Gabe and his clothes and flees. “Jonas?” “What?” “Nothing.” He looks different. He’s shaved something off, or let something grow. Why is everyone changing their hair all of a sudden? The difference is that he’s clean-shaven, she decides, rather than sporting his usual half-grown stubble. His eyebrows look groomed. And his eyelashes are gone. Has he never had eyelashes? How could she not notice something like that? The absence of hair ought to reveal more of him, but somehow it has the opposite effect: his face seems harder, smoother, more artificial, a rigid mask. “Jonas?” “What?” She looks at his hands. They’re thick, blunt, made for crushing things or wrenching them apart. She should leave. She should just leave, right now. Instead she runs her finger down his cheek. It’s as soft as suède. They make love on the couch. Jonas moves so slowly, so gently, he doesn’t break a sweat. Gabe watches the whole thing from his bouncy-swing. He’s so heavy he doesn’t bounce, just hangs suspended, the frame buckling under his deadweight. The second time Gabe vanishes she knows she shouldn’t panic. But she does. She panics more than she did the first time. Again she dashes up and down stairs, wheeling and whirling, her own hysterical breathing drowning out all other sound. Finally she stops, pauses, tries to feel on her skin the tiny air currents stirred up by movement somewhere in the house. She finds him sitting in the empty bathtub, not crying, not lost in contemplation of his warped reflection in the faucet, as a normal baby would be. He’s sitting, hands folded, patient, simply waiting. She lugs him to his changing table, whips off his playsuit, his diaper, turns on a bright lamp, and inspects him all over. She thinks she sees a new bruise on his ankle, then one on his groin. Then a ring of small ones flowering on his shoulder like a bite mark. Then one on his cheek. Then she’s seeing them everywhere, his whole hide is mottled with them, coated with them. “I give up,” she says. She hears Jonas slam the front door. “Baby,” he calls. “Baby, darling, mother dear, shoogums, sweetheart, honey pie, sugar lips, babycakes, cinnamon roll”—reciting the litany of eons ago, back when he was always kidding but meant it all and she didn’t believe a word of it. She feels a frantic desire to hide—hide herself, hide Gabe, fold up the entire house and hide it in her pocket. She crouches over the changing table and hears Jonas’s footsteps on the stairs. She is conscious of her exposed back, the vulnerability of her nape and skull. She tells herself that there is a masked intruder coming down the hall. That fantasy is preferable to the truth. “Honey,” he says. “I’m home.” She wakes feeling that something is wrong. She wakes to vertigo every morning, but today is different. She trudges to the nursery, rotating her sore shoulders, cracking her back. The rocking chair nods gently, as if someone had just vacated it. The astronauts and cowboys and lion tamers on the wallpaper wink at her. Jonas picked the paper; she had been skeptical. The astronauts have what are unquestionably codpieces attached to their spacesuits, and the lion tamers seem a little too fey. For the hundredth time she resolves to repaper the room. She leans over the crib. A pink-skinned, black-haired green-eyed baby looks back at her. She screams. The baby screams. It’s so loud, she’s never heard anything so loud, it’s like the walls are screaming. Jonas comes running. He comes just a little too quickly, as if he’d been waiting a few steps down the hall; his surprise is a bit too theatrical. “Where is Gabe?” she screams. “Where is he?” Jonas’s face shifts from blankness to surprise to ecstatic realization in a metamorphosis that has clearly been rehearsed for hours before the bathroom mirror. “But this is Gabe. He’s changed. He’s cured.” “This is not Gabe! Have you lost your mind? Where did this baby come from?” “It’s a miracle. He finally changed. I knew he would. He’s healed.” “He wasn’t sick! He was fine before!” “He’s normal now. We can be a normal family. Isn’t that what you wanted?” “What you wanted.” The baby’s eyes flick back and forth; fists wave in the air; legs kick. A new sound comes out of its mouth. Not a scream. Something else. The audible language of babies is so foreign to her she doesn’t understand what’s happening. Jonas lifts the baby and holds it against his shoulder, and the noise stops. “What is going on?” A loud burp mocks her. Jonas? Or the baby? “Why can’t you just be happy?” Jonas says. And that’s what everyone tells her: the doctors, the police when she insists on calling them, her parents, their friends. It’s a miracle, people say. You should consider yourselves lucky. Just one of those things. Even the doctors say this. “Don’t put a gift horse in your mouth, right?” Jonas says. “Count your blessings, right? Didn’t you say that?” The new baby vomits great lumpy gouts on her shoulder. He has mushy features, a fat chin—nothing like Gabe’s. He’s light, flabby, insubstantial. She could toss him out the window if she wanted to. She might. He screams and screams. His face turns red when he screams, when he burps, when the slightest flicker of emotion or indigestion ripples through him. “Like you,” Jonas says. Which is true; when Julia gets embarrassed or excited, red splotches appear on her throat and chest, as if she were being throttled by an invisible strangler. She’s splotchy now. “Why can’t you accept a good thing?” Jonas asks. “I can understand being in denial about a tragedy, but not this. Why do you have to question it?” “This is not my baby,” she says. No one listens. But she knows. A mother knows. Her breasts ache. Her longing for Gabe is intensely physical, a barbed fishhook tugging. The strange baby sucks at her, eating her up. That’s not yours, she wants to tell him. It’s on loan, it belongs to someone else. When he comes back, you’ll have to repay the debt somehow. She tells herself she is a wet nurse, as in medieval times, suckling the queen’s child. It’s a job, that’s all. “It was just a phase,” Jonas says. “He outgrew it.” He’s full of authority all of a sudden. Doesn’t he ever go to work anymore? Seems like he’s always here, changing diapers, wiping everything down with antiseptic cleaners, plying the baby with soft goggle-eyed toys. She surreptitiously rifles the house, every baby-sized space she can think of. She peers into the clothes dryer with a flashlight before using it. With the baby on her shoulder, she searches the back yard for spots of freshly turned-up earth. She’s being morbid, she knows. She finds a soft patch and begins digging at it with the toe of her sneaker. The dirt comes away easily. It would be quicker with a shovel, but she doesn’t want to put the baby down and go get one. She can’t leave the baby in the house, she needs him here, she needs him to see, bear witness. She must maintain balance, at all costs. Whatever hole she finds Gabe in, she will take him out and leave this strange baby in his place. She’s still kicking and scooping with her foot when Jonas comes home. Headlights. Door slamming. Lights go on in rooms, she hears his voice faintly calling. She sees the light go on in the nursery, now she sees his flitting, panicked shadow. She should call to him. But not yet, not yet, she’ll watch the show a minute longer. That must be what I looked like, she thinks, when I found Gabe missing. Something catches his eye, her white shirt, probably, moving against the darkening hedges. He comes racing outside, little loose bits of him—hair, shirt collar, glasses, jowls—jiggling and fluttering. He looks at her, the baby, the breadbox-size hole. “What are you doing?” “I thought . . . I thought . . . ” “I know what you thought. Can’t you see how silly you’re being?” Yes, she thinks, I underestimated you. Of course you wouldn’t hide him here, right under our noses. “What do we have to do,” he says, “to make you happy?” “You know.” “Listen,” he sighs. “What if I stop trying to convince you that this is Gabe? Why don’t we pretend that this is another kid, who’s just dropped in our laps and we have to take care of him. Would that make it easier?” “No,” she says, staring at his teeth, which are blue in the twilight. She rubs the baby’s back. He burrows his way into her neck and glues himself there with drool. Jonas is right; it’ll be far easier to be charitable and love a strange child than to surrender her convictions and concede that he’s really hers. But she finds that the former begins to gradually lead her to the latter, in a slow and insidious way. As days and weeks pass, she relaxes into routines, takes pleasure in the baby’s burps and crows and crawling, and forgets for long traitorous periods about her real son. And then it’s not a forgetting; she begins to suspect that everyone is right and she is wrong, that this is Gabe after all. Am I going to react this violently every time he changes? she asks herself. Am I going to be one of those mothers who can’t bear their children to grow up, even a little bit? She begins to think she sees him, her Gabe, in this baby. Truly in him; she glimpses the shimmer of Gabe’s pale eyes behind the baby’s greenish ones, the glint of gold beneath the scalp, like hairs trapped beneath stockings. Impossible, she thinks. But she can’t shake the idea. How clever of Jonas, she thinks, to hide him in plain sight. Impossible. But they smell the same, don’t they? This baby and Gabe. She searches her library of sense memories. And the teeth, the teeth are exactly the same. Jonas never even knew about the teeth. He couldn’t have known to find a replacement baby with the exact same— Gabe’s in there, she thinks, he’s been inside there all along. Trapped. Trying to signal to her, calling silently. She puts an ear to the baby’s chest. She tries to put the thoughts aside but they bounce back up like balloons. What does it matter, she thinks. If Gabe is in there, then she should be glad to have him, in any form. But she wants proof. She wants to be sure. A strange line of thought arises, which she tries to erase, but can’t. She has sudden urges, imagines smashing the baby like a vase to see what’s inside, imagines unscrewing his head like the top of a perfume bottle. Changing his diaper, she pulls his legs apart to clean him and imagines pulling, and pulling, and pulling. She has to lay her suspicions to rest, once and for all. If she could just lift up a bit of skin and see— This pale skin that has grown up over him like a crust, a chrysalis— Just peel back a corner, like getting a peek at the old wallpaper— Just a peek—then she will be at peace. Then she will lay down her arms, she will concede everything. She will be the best mother the world has ever seen. Just a little bit. She’ll be so gentle, he won’t even feel it. Quick, now, before she loses her nerve. Gabe darling, if that’s you in there, just lie still, Mommy’s coming— Jonas has left work early—no reason, just felt something was wrong at home, first stirrings of the parent’s sixth sense. He checks the yard, then clatters through the house, vaults up the stairs. Now he pauses in the doorway of the nursery and sees a woman he doesn’t recognize, a woman with only the vaguest resemblance to his wife, hunched over the baby on the changing table. The baby is silent, as if curious, waiting. The changeling mother bends studiously to her work, moments away from discovery, revelation, reunion. The baby holds his breath. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Elsie By Starlight	It was his father, an accountant for a textile mill, who had urged Owen to get a practical, scientific education. Floyd Mackenzie’s experience of the Depression had been that engineers were the last people to be fired; he had seen it happen. “The kid needs to latch on to something practical,” he announced. “He’s in danger of dreaming his brains away.” The boy’s brains, he reasoned, could be best engaged by machinery, if not by the giant knitting machines, as long and heavy as freight cars, whose ill-rewarded servant he himself had been, then by some other kind of construction (bridges, dams, dynamos) whose indispensable utility was more obvious to the world than that of strict, honest accountancy. In a materialist age, matter must be trusted. A university in far-off Massachusetts, a so-called Institute of Technology, offered Owen a scholarship. His being a student from a small rural high school in Pennsylvania helped his chances with the bestowers of admissions and student aid. The university was by an artificially broadened river, the Charles, across from a half-derelict city, Boston, that held at the summit of a cut-down hill a sallow gold dome from under which the Commonwealth was governed. In the early fifties, prewar shabbiness still ruled Cambridge and Boston, yet they were cities of youth, of students everywhere. Sailboats and rowing sculls rippled the river, a glittering sporting site bluer than the Schuylkill, which had been black with coal silt. M.I.T. seemed to Owen heroic in the grand and mazy scale of its vast central building: a series of buildings interconnected by passageways, each segment known not by a name but by a number. The main entrance, numbered 77 Massachusetts Avenue, led into Building 7, where six great pillars and a high circumcameral inscription to “industry, the arts, agriculture, and commerce” upheld the limestone dome. The fabled Building 20, the “plywood palace” on Vassar Street, had sheltered secret radar researches by which, it was said, the Second World War had been won. Underground infusions of government and corporate wealth continued to enlist scientific intelligence in the Cold War; in the analysis center and the digital computer laboratory, rooms entirely taken up with arrayed cabinets full of wires and vacuum tubes, and fed by punched cards, linked, rumors claimed, all the radar stations around the United States and calculated missile trajectories that a hundred savants with pencils could not compute in a hundred years. M.I.T. was a male world, its administrators and instructors all but exclusively male, and a number of them military men. Though the great postwar tide of veterans was receding, uniforms were still common on campus. Of six thousand students, no more than a hundred and twenty were women, and half of these were graduate students. Phyllis Goodhue stood out, then, as a member of a decided minority, which was outnumbered sixty-six to one in the endless corridors—floors of tan terrazzo and doors of frosted glass strictly numbered in black, even the women’s lavatory, “3-101-women.” She was yet more noticeable among the springtime sunbathers in the Great Court, a large sheltered lawn, between Buildings 3 and 4, that overlooked the new segment of Memorial Drive, its double row of sycamore trees, and, in their gaps, the sparkling, playful Charles and the rosy low profile of Back Bay. Most of the sixty female undergraduates were not lovely—driven grinds with neglected figures and complexions, heads down in the hallways as they bucked the tide, trying to blend in with the boys—and Owen had to look twice at Phyllis to verify that she was. Was lovely. True or false? Was twice necessary? No: from the start, through that river-chilled, sleepless, and miserable first year, in which his head was being stuffed with, among other rafts of basic data, introductory circuit theory (Kirchhoff’s laws and Thévenin’s and Norton’s theorems, step function and impulse response, resonance phenomena and conjugate impedances), whenever Owen passed Phyllis in one of the thronged corridors his own electromagnetic field changed, by an amount as subtle but as crucial as the difference between df and dt. There was a numbness only she inflicted. Her presence transformed the odd-shaped cement-paved spaces scattered among the buildings west of the Kendall Square subway stop, where bleary students loitered over gossip and cigarettes. She held her tidy head erect on its long neck. Her straight hair, the mixed blond of half-damp sand, was gathered into a ponytail in back with a rubber band. In the front, bangs came down to her pale eyebrows, which blended with her skin; her brows and eyelashes were almost invisible. She wore no makeup, not even lipstick, and smoked poutingly, her cheeks deeply hollowed on the inhale and her exhale delivered with a certain dismissive vehemence, upward from the side of her mouth. In her offhand, underclad (the same dove-gray cloth coat and dirty tennis sneakers all winter) glamour she came to represent Cambridge for him—aloof, stoic, abstracted, pure. She looked like no girl from Pennsylvania, not even the fancy ones from the Main Line. Elsie Seidel, his high-school girlfriend, the daughter of a country feed-and-hardware merchant, had always been smartly turned out, with polished penny loafers and ribbed knee socks and sweeping skirts and broad belts in the New Look style, and with tortoiseshell barrettes gleaming in the bouncy light-brown waves of her hair. And plenty of lipstick, maroon lipstick that looked black in Kodak snapshots and rubbed off on his mouth so that afterward it stung to get it all off with spit on a handkerchief. He didn’t want his mother to see; his mother didn’t want him to go with Elsie at all, though the girl was respectable, more respectable locally than Owen’s family, who were newcomers to this end of the county and to the school district. The district encompassed several valleys and included families whose first language was still Pennsylvania Dutch. Elsie herself spoke with a “Dutchy” care—her voice seemed older than she was. There was a country simplicity to her, a well-fed glossiness. The first time they kissed, in the intermission of a school dance, Elsie didn’t make the anxious pushing mouth that Alice Stottlemeyer had during spin-the-bottle but somehow let her lips melt into his, at this warm spitty spot where their bodies joined. She was a short girl, in a sweated-up taffeta dance dress, and he was six feet tall at seventeen, so she had to tug down at him to keep his face tight to hers; she wanted to kiss more, there behind a broken Coke machine, where the overhead fluorescent light was flickering. Her compact eager body molded itself to his; he remembered hearing how Carol Wisniewski had let herself be fucked by Marty Naftzinger standing up in the narrow space between the rec hall and the hosiery mill, and saw that it could be done. Not that he and Elsie ever—in a word they never used between them—fucked. He was too smart for that, too anxious to avoid wasting his one life. He knew that fucking led to marriage and he was not ready for that. In the heat and urgency of that first kiss, he recognized that Elsie had had her eye on him, as the phrase went—he had been an exotic, aloof arrival at the school, and somehow the idea of him had wormed its way excitingly into her head. So between them there was always this tilt, this unbalance: she had desired him before he knew what was up. Owen would afterward associate Elsie with the inside of a car—its stale velour, its little dim dashboard lights, its rubber floormats and chill metallic surfaces. Chilly at first: after they’d been driving around for hours, the heater made a torrid alcove in the dark. On dates, they took his parents’ stuffy prewar Chevy. His father was generally home from work by six, and Owen was granted the car for the roaming that is, in common American wisdom, a teen-ager’s right. At first, there was only kissing, on and on, eyes closed to admit behind sealed lids a flood of other sensations, an expansion of consciousness into a salty, perfumed space quite unlike the hushed and headlong vault of masturbation. In the dark seclusion between cool tight sheets, his parents’ muttering having died away, he would seem for some seconds to stand on his head, having discovered with his left hand a faithful mechanism impossibly sweet, a clench that took him back to infancy, its tight knit of newness before memories overlaid the bliss of being. Into this private darkness had come another, another seeker, and what was being found, clumsily yet unstoppably, was a core self explored by another consciousness. Elsie was both witness and witnessed. Her eyes were the wet, honey-tinged brown of horehound drops. By the particles of light that entered through the windshield, he saw the dark dents of her dimples when she smiled, and the side of one eyeball gleam as she studied him across a gap that closed in a few seconds. Huddled beside him on the front seat, a bench seat in that era, with her back gouged by the knob of the window crank and her calves and ankles roasted by the heater, she seemed cupped to receive him, a nest of growing permissions. With each date, she gave him an inch or two more of herself that he could claim as his henceforth; there was no taking back these small territories. Beyond kissing, there was so much to touch, so many hooks and tricks among the catches and aromatic coverings, there in the shelter of the car, which sometimes was her car, for, though a year younger than he, she also had a driver’s license, and when his poor old family Chevy was under overnight repair or commandeered for some adult evening errand, she would bring a car of her family’s, her mother’s green Dodge, or even her father’s new deep-blue Chrysler, with its V-8 engine, to pick him up, at the farmhouse where his mother had not without a struggle accepted that Elsie had become his “girl,” whatever that meant as the world embarked on a new half century. Some of those evenings when Elsie did the driving, pulling up in an impressive machine, she would be invited in, into the little house’s front parlor. Smartly dressed in this setting of declining gentility, Elsie spoke to Owen’s mother with a lively courtesy. Her honey-brown eyes flashed; her red lips smiled. Uneasily standing by, in a flannel shirt whose sleeves were too short, in scuffed laced shoes that looked oafish compared with Elsie’s polished penny loafers—much on view as she smartly crossed and recrossed her plump legs—Owen felt like a baton being passed. When the young people, these social observances discharged, achieved freedom in a car of Elsie’s, it seemed perverse, after the movie or the miniature golf was behind them and they had found a parking place, to have her seated on his left instead of on his right. Come at this way, she felt like a strange girl, with whom he must begin from scratch. Their chins and mouths made angles opposite from the usual, and his hands coped with reversed routes. “Should we switch?” she asked, when he remarked on this strangeness. Her voice came out breathier, lower in her throat, than the polite, Dutch-flavored voice she used with his mother and the teachers at school. Her lipstick had already begun to smear and flake. Her face was waxily lit by a street lamp half a block away; they were parked in a spot he knew from childhood walks, at the back of the old Dairy Queen lot on Cedar Top. Other times, they would park up by Shale Hill, near what had been the Victory Gardens, on a dirt road made by recent developers. Always, as the scope of her permissions widened, he searched for even safer spots, where the police would never come up and shine flashlights in their faces, as once had happened, behind the long low sheds of the old farmers’ market. As she sat high behind the wheel of her father’s expensive car, her mussed hair caught fire in stray loops and strands from the distant street lamp. “Let’s,” he agreed. “If you don’t mind my sitting behind your father’s wheel.” “I don’t mind, Owen. I don’t like it poking me in the ribs all the time. I don’t see how you can stand it.” “Elsie, when I’m with you I don’t notice such things. Here I go. I’ll get out and you slide over.” Thrusting himself into the public space outside the automobile, where adult morality pressed down from the stars, he opened and shut the Chrysler’s passenger door (it made that sucky rich rattle-free sound) and scuttled around the broad chrome bumper and white-walled rear tires hunched over, for he already had an erection. Even behind his fly it felt scarily as if it might snag on something, until he settled behind her father’s steering wheel, which wore a suède cover. The tang of the new-car smell was warmed into freshness by the heat of their bodies. As he slid across the front seat, wide enough for three, into the space where she huddled, the distant light illumined her blurred face and a small pearl earring and the fuzzy wool of her short-sleeved angora sweater. She let him slide the sweater up and sneak a finger into her bra and stroke the silky skin there, the gentle fatty rise of it. Though Elsie was plump, her breasts were small, as if still developing. When he had advanced to taking off her bra and pushing the sweater way up, her chest seemed hardly different from his own; a breast of hers in his hand felt as delicate as a tear bulging in his eye. One night, parked up by the Victory Gardens, where the street lamp was closer than on Cedar Top, he watched raindrops on the windshield make shadows on her chest, thin trails that hesitated and fell as his fingertips traced and tried to stop them, there, and there. She had dear little nipples like rabbit noses. She let him kiss them, suck them until she said, in her breathy, un-Dutchy voice, “Ow, Owen. Enough, baby,” and touched his head the way the barber did when he wanted it to move. Sitting up, he made circles with his finger and his saliva around her nipples, softly round and round, loving the sight of them so much he felt dizzy, as the parallel shadows of the raindrops faintly streaked her chest and the backs of his hands. She never touched his prick. It was too sacred, too potent. They pretended it wasn’t there, even when their bodies straightened at the angle permitted by the front seat and its heater-crowded foot space and he held her buttocks through her rumpled skirt and pressed himself rhythmically against her, all the time their mouths kissing, until he came, came in his underpants, where the dried jism made a brittle stain he later picked off with his fingernail, hoping his mother wouldn’t notice it when she did the wash. His sense of sexual etiquette was primitive, gleaned from the way men and women acted in the movies up to their huge closeup kiss at the end, and from enigmatic dialogue in a few books, like “For Whom the Bell Tolls” and “Forever Amber” and “A Rage to Live” and “The Amboy Dukes,” that he had looked into, and from a pornographic poem that Marty Naftzinger’s younger brother, Jerry, a runty curly-haired kid in Owen’s class, could recite, if you paid him a dime. But it was developed enough to ask, after one such climax against her compliant body, “What can we do for you?” This embarrassed her. Elsie liked to pretend that what had just happened hadn’t happened at all. “How do you mean?” This made him shy in turn. “I mean—just holding still for me isn’t enough, is it?” She said, “We can’t do more, Owen. There might be consequences you don’t want.” Yet there was more, both knew it, and as his senior year ran out they groped to find it without committing sins so dark and final that their lives would be forever deformed. Elsie was less afraid of this than he; he refused to test how far she would let him “go.” It had become their way in the car for him to bend over and kiss the silky warm inner sides of her thighs and then press his mouth as far up as he could into the warmth, her warmth. At first, she resisted, pushing at his shoulders, and then came to expect it. In those days, even teen-age girls wore girdles: the crotch of her underpants was guarded by edges of stiff elastic, and though she shyly edged her hips forward in the car seat his lips could not quite reach the damp cotton. Not that he knew enough to make her come with his mouth, or how girls came at all. The pleasure was his, in being this close to a secret, in having her yield it up to him, even her fragrance, which was strong enough at times to exert a counterforce, a wish to pull his face away. But he loved it there between her legs, and how hot and sticky his cheeks grew against her thighs, and the graceless awkwardness this maneuver asked of her, still wearing her knee socks and loafers. The summer before he went off to M.I.T., their experiments took on a desperate edge. She knew he was slipping away; the baton had not been passed after all. Owen had got a summer job on a surveying crew, tending the target marks and chopping brush out of the sight lines. Elsie had gone to a Lutheran camp in Ohio, where she was a counsellor, for six weeks. He would get a ride home with the crew from far corners of the county and have to be fetched when he could not hitch a ride; he would come home exhausted and dirty, and tried not to think that college in a foreign region was swooping down upon him and would carry him away—for good, he both hoped and feared. After Elsie returned from Ohio, it seemed almost too much work to take a bath in the farmhouse’s one tub and go out again, into the dark. He and she needed the dark now. With the freedoms they had granted each other, they needed such privacy that even a distant street light or the remotest chance of a cop with a flashlight and barking voice could not be borne. Where could they go, with their maturing needs and fears of eventual desertion? His summer had not been so distracted that he had missed the implication, in her letters from camp, that she had found companionship with the boy counsellors, or the gossip, when in August she had returned, that while he was cutting brush in future housing developments she was to be seen at the township’s public pool, lounging in a two-piece bathing suit on a towel on the grass, with another boy, a boy her age, in her class, who would be there with her after September. “My father owns a hundred acres of woods not that far from Brechstown,” she told Owen, after an hour of directionless cruising one evening. “There’s an old road in. Nobody ever comes there.” “Sounds perfect,” he said, but did it? He let her direct him, turn by turn, on narrow roads he had never driven before. He was frightened at the road entrance, with its “No Trespassing” sign and rusting remains of barbed-wire fence; there was a sandstone boulder that with his summer muscles he rolled five feet to the side so they could get by. They were in the fragile old black Chevrolet; his father, mocking his own poverty, called it “the flivver.” As branches raked the creeping car’s sides, Owen felt guilt, yet less than if it had been her father’s Chrysler, which was kept so shipshape and simonized. A litter of cans and wrappers in the headlights revealed that others had been here before, also pushing aside the boulder in their strength of desire. The road was rough; the old car rocked. Suppose they broke an axle or got a flat tire? The scandal, the disgrace would stain his life forever. “Isn’t this far enough?” he asked. He felt a trap closing behind him. “It goes in for a long way but gets worse,” Elsie admitted. He turned off the ignition and the headlights. Such darkness! It pounced upon them with an audible crackle; it locked around the windows as if the car had plunged into a black river. As his eyes adjusted, he saw a star or two high in the windshield, in the spaces between the great still trees overhead. Occasional headlights on the dirt road a half mile away twinkled. Elsie’s face was a mere glimmer in the cave of velour, rubber, shaped steel, and shatterproof glass. His lips found hers, and they were full and moist, but the old melting, one mouth into another, met impediments, things he couldn’t put out of his mind. Suppose the Chevy didn’t start when they wanted to go? Suppose he couldn’t back it out on this overgrown road, the bushes a solid mass behind them and he without the machete he used on the surveying crew? He felt life, a silent vegetable life, enclosing them, on this her father’s land, this man present in every leaf and reaching branch. Owen was still young enough to invest the darkness with spying presences; they distracted him when he should have been purely bent on the treasure at hand, in the deepest privacy he and Elsie would ever know. It was August; she wore shorts and no girdle. As their embraces gained ardor and flexibility, her crotch came into his hand as if rising to it. She lifted her hips on the car seat so he could slide her shorts down; through his clumsiness her white underpants came off with them, and Elsie did not try to grab them back. She seemed to stretch, elongating her belly. Even in this darkness, he saw wet gleams upon her eyeballs, like faraway fireflies, and the pallor of her long belly descending to a small soft shadow. Frightened of that shadow, he turned his attention to her breasts; with a touch more practiced than with her underpants, he unhooked her bra and tugged up her short-sleeved jersey. She crossed her arms and pulled the jersey the rest of the way, up over her head, with the bra. Her hair, cut shorter this summer so she could be in and out of the lake at the Lutheran camp, bounced, releasing a scent of shampoo. The bony smooth roundness of her shoulders gave him the shock of her nakedness; he hid his face against the side of her neck, saying, “Oh, God. I can’t stand this.” Her cheek tensed as she smiled. “Now you, Owen,” she breathed into his ear. “Your shirt.” Quickly, not wanting to let go of her for a second, he pulled it off, wishing he had bathed more carefully, for the smell of his armpits joined that of her shampoo and her skin in the close air of the car. He could see more and more, as if light were leaking from the patches of sky between the trees, shedding glimmers into the woods, where faint noises were reviving and becoming less faint. He kissed her breasts, trying to be delicate, trying not to bite as the nipples grew hard, while she pressed into his ear a voice that seemed made up, enlarged and rehearsed, like something in the movies: “Owen, I used to take off my clothes in my room and walk around looking at myself in the mirror, wishing you could see me.” “You’re beautiful—amazing,” he told her, meaning it, but, as if her voice had swabbed out his ears, he now heard other things, whispers and stirrings around them, on the other side of the glass and metal. From somewhere not too distant there was a hoot, an owl or possibly a signal from a murderous, demented gang that lived here in caves and came out at night. Suppose the car doesn’t start? he thought again. It often didn’t, in rainstorms, or on cold mornings, his father frantic, flooding the engine in his panic, so the wearying starter turned it over, uncatching, cooga cooga. “Did you hear something?” he asked Elsie. She had left her loafers on the gritty floor of the car and had risen up, bare now even to her feet, to kneel on the seat beside him, stroking his face as he tongued her breasts; even in his state of growing terror he marvelled, holding her tight, at the give of a girl’s waist, at the semi-liquid space below the ribs and then, behind, the downy hard plate at the base of the spine and the glassy globes of her buttocks, smooth into the cleavage, all of it unified like the silvery body of a fish, all so simple and true, the simple truth of her, alive in his arms. He heard the distant hoot again. Something rustled near the car tires. She felt his mouth losing interest in her nipple, and began to listen with him. Behind the skin between her breasts, her heart was beating. “I don’t think so,” Elsie answered, her voice losing its movie-screen largeness and becoming small, with a childish quaver. For reassurance she added, “He says nobody ever comes here except in hunting season.” But she, too, must have seen the cans and wrappers in the headlights, evidence of others. He: her father, the owner, all around them, hating Owen, what he was doing to his daughter, striving in every twig and trunk to eject the two of them. They listened and heard a noise so faint it could have just been saliva rattling in their held breath. Owen’s hands began to move again, gathering her tender taut nakedness closer to him, his fingertips finding a touch of fuzz in the cleavage behind. He wondered how to get his head down to kiss that soft shadow he had glimpsed; it seemed shyer, gauzier than what he had seen in dirty photographs and drawings, the few he had seen. His prick was aching behind his fly, and her hand dropped and, the first time ever, began fumbling at his belt buckle to release it, its imperious pressure, its closeted sour smell. But he had spooked her, he had spooked them both, and the desire that dominated him, bare-chested though he was, was the desire to escape, to see if the car could start and he could back it up that narrow road without hitting a tree or a deep hole. Her father’s land, and her nakedness in it like a shout: Owen was vulnerable, criminal even—trespassing, and she a minor. He must restore her intact to society. The rustling near the tires became a sudden thrashing, a distinct lunge of the unknown. “Elsie,” he whispered. “What?” Perhaps expecting some avowal, some earthy plea. “Let’s get out of here.” She hesitated. He heard her heart beat, her breath whistle. “It’s up to you,” she decided in the mannerly voice that she had used with his mother. Then, catching his mood, she whispered, “Yes, let’s.” Often afterward, he would remember details of this hour (her shorts and underpants in one sweep; her gleaming eye-whites; his sense of her slithering into the space above his head like a silken kite, like an angel crammed into the upper corner of a Sienese Nativity) and regret his lack of the boldness that would have let him linger with her gift of herself, and taste it, and let her continue undoing his pants. But his nerves had poisoned their privacy. Naked or not, she was a person, and now a frightened one. His retreat was cowardly, but he felt brave and cool, successfully managing its details. He started the engine—thank God, it started, drowning out all those other sounds—and backed down the overgrown road by the wan glow of the backup lights while branches scraped metal and Elsie scrambled into her clothes. He would have backed up right onto the paved road, not bothering to roll back the boulder, but she said, in a voice whose calmness sounded stern, “Owen. We should put it back the way we found it.” Her father’s precious land. This had been her show, he realized. He got out angrily and in the glare of his own headlights heaved the rock into place, for the next trespassers. “Sorry, sorry, sorry,” he said when the Chevy was safely running down the highway, to Brechstown, where she lived. “I chickened out.” Elsie said, after lighting a cigarette, “You’re more citified than I am. Woods don’t frighten me. My father and uncle hunt in the fall. There are no bears or anything, not even bobcats anymore. I felt safe.” “You should have told me that while we were in there.” “I tried to distract you, to keep you interested.” “You did, you were stunning. I loved it. You.” She was silent, putting his jerky speech together. He told her, “It’s just as well. We might have fucked.” Not a word they used, with others or between themselves: it was a kind of offering. But she held her silence. It occurred to him, his face heating in a blush, that he hadn’t been prepared even physically, with one of these rubber things he had seen years ago up by the abandoned Dairy Queen. She at last spoke: “I wouldn’t have let you, Owen. I intend to be a virgin for my husband. It was just, like I said, I wanted you to know me, to see me, as I see myself.” “You were beautiful. Are beautiful, Elsie.” Was she crying? “Thank you, Owen,” she brought out. “You’re a nice person.” Too nice, was the implication. Still, he couldn’t blame himself. Her body like that of a slithering cool flexible fish in his arms had been a revelation, but it had been revelation enough for one night. Were there other nights to follow? There might have been, but when he looked back, trying to recall each underlit detail, it didn’t seem so. Their futures came upon them fast. Elsie had another boyfriend for her senior year, and married yet another boy, one she met at the local Penn State extension. Surprisingly, they left the region, settling in the San Francisco area. If Owen wouldn’t take her away, another would. They must have driven around that night, burning up gas, letting their heartbeats slow down, trying to talk into place what they had learned about each other and their own lives, before he drove her home to Brechstown. Her house was up a long crunching driveway, an old farmhouse like his own family’s but fully, fussily fixed up. A new addition held a two-car garage below and a family room above, with a TV and built-in loudspeakers and furniture that all matched. The addition was covered in aluminum siding; the original core was built not of sandstone but of limestone, because that was what the earth yielded here, near the Chester County line. When he kissed her goodnight, again there was not that melting together, though he took the liberty of stroking a breast as she leaned toward him. Owen felt he had failed, but no one could take from him his stolen treasure, how far Elsie had “gone,” leaving him with a kind of home movie his mind could run and rerun in a rickety projector, not just in bed but in inward moments of daylight, bits and pieces of her barely seen—her shampoo, her heartbeat like a stranger knocking on the other side of a door, the surprising elastic give and stretch of her waist. So Phyllis Goodhue was not his first love interest, though it must be admitted that even for the innocent fifties Owen was an innocent. Having been taken too deep into the woods by Elsie, he saw sex as something to be deferred until he had made space for it—made money enough not to feel squeezed. His freshman year had been squeezed by his efforts not to fail and fall back into the farmland and his disconsolate family. Returning to Cambridge as a sophomore, Owen found the squeeze slightly lessened; he was beginning to know the ropes. In September, he ventured across the river to see the Braves play the Phillies; he rooted for the Phillies but kept it to himself, in the shirtsleeved crowd whose skimpiness foretold the move of the franchise to Milwaukee within a year. The symmetrical eight-team leagues of his boyhood, as immovably fixed, he had thought, as the Ten Commandments, were beginning to shift and slide across the country. On a Friday night in November, he and a pack of five other future engineers took the subway at Kendall and walked up Cambridge Street to the Old Howard at Scollay Square, which itself would soon disappear. Before a somewhat sardonic all-male audience of sailors and geezers and college boys, a glittering woman with an implausible cinnamon-red upsweep strutted in fewer and fewer clothes and ended up on her back on a velvet chaise longue, kicking her legs in the air in a sufficient pantomime of orgasm, while the drums in the orchestra pit pounded. Under the harsh stage lights, well-used, half-amused women went through routines that did not seem lifeless to Owen; in feathers and breakaway ball gowns and hourglass corsets and ruffled garters and satin heels, these women had the pure life of dreams, dreams sent up from the pit of oneself, fantastic enactments of what was at bottom most real. A New England daintiness and wit leavened what in Pennsylvania, in the milltown brothels and dives as sensed by a child of the region, had a sullen, suety heaviness, slightly rancid. Up here, where the Puritans had left their traces in the white steeples and prim brick architecture, sex was tricked up, if not altogether banned. Boston’s highly evolved civic morality prescribed certain limits on costume. Pasties on the nipples, G-string on the pubis, high heels on the feet, tiaras on the head, bright paint on the face—all mitigated the simple glimmering nudity that Elsie in her innocence had offered him one night. Nudity, New England seemed to say, was too serious, too vulnerable, to commodify; only goddesses in marble or Mother Eve in crabbed engravings could flaunt it aboveground. Underground, there were stag films in frat houses, projected to uneasy hooting, starring actors and actresses whose sagging, pouchy, wistful, and impotent humanity roused scorn in the viewers, young and inexperienced as they were. In his sophomore year, after a summer of the surveying crew and a few unsatisfactory dates with Elsie, who was more guarded and sparing of herself now that she was a Penn State freshman, Owen returned in his daydreams to Phyllis, without ever having spoken a word to her. But she turned up in a class that he, too, was taking—Non-Linear Impedances as Power Modulators. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Plague of Doves	Some years before the turn of the last century, my great-uncle, one of the first Catholic priests of aboriginal blood, put the call out to his congregation, telling everyone to gather at St. Gabriel’s, wearing scapulars and holding missals. From that place, they would proceed to walk the fields in a long, sweeping row, and with each step loudly pray away the doves. My great-uncle’s human flock had taken up the plow and farmed among Norwegian settlers. Unlike the French, who mingled with my ancestors, the Norwegians took little interest in the women native to the land and did not intermarry. In fact, they disregarded everybody but themselves and were quite clannish. But the doves ate their crops just the same. They ate the wheat seedlings and the rye and started on the corn. They ate the sprouts of new flowers and the buds of apples and the tough leaves of oak trees and even last year’s chaff. The doves were plump, and delicious smoked, but one could wring the necks of hundreds or even thousands and effect no visible diminishment of their number. The pole-and-mud houses of the mixed-bloods and the skin tents of the blanket Indians were crushed by the weight of the birds. When they descended, both Indians and whites set up great bonfires and tried to drive them into nets. The birds were burned, roasted, baked in pies, stewed, salted down in barrels, or clubbed to death with sticks and left to rot. But the dead only fed the living, and each morning when the people woke it was to the scraping and beating of wings, the murmurous susurration, the awful cooing babble, and the sight of the curious and gentle faces of those creatures. My great-uncle had hastily constructed crisscrossed racks of sticks to protect the rare glass windows of what was grandly called the rectory. In a corner of that one-room cabin, his twelve-year-old brother, whom he had saved from a life of excessive freedom, slept on a pallet of cottonwood branches and a mattress stuffed with grass. This was the softest bed the boy had ever had, and he did not want to leave it, but my great-uncle thrust a choirboy surplice at him and ordered him to polish up the candelabra that he would carry in the procession. This boy would be my grandfather’s father, my Mooshum, and since he lived to be over a hundred I was able to hear him tell and retell the story of the most momentous day of his life—which began with this attempt to vanquish the plague of doves. Sitting on a hard chair, between our first television and the small alcove of bookshelves set into the wall of our government-owned house on the Bureau of Indian Affairs school campus, he told us how he’d heard the scratching of the doves’ feet as they climbed all over the screens of sticks that his brother had made. He dreaded going to the outhouse, because some of the birds had got mired in the filth beneath the hole and set up a screeching clamor of despair that caused others of their kind to throw themselves against the hut in rescue attempts. But he did not dare relieve himself anywhere else. So through a flurry of wings, shuffling so as not to step on the birds, he made his way to the outhouse and completed the necessary actions with his eyes shut. Leaving, he tied the door closed so that no other doves would be trapped. The outhouse drama, always the first scene in Mooshum’s story of that momentous day, was filled with the sort of details that my brother and I found interesting; the outhouse—which was an exotic but not unfamiliar feature—and the horror of the birds’ death by excrement gripped our attention. Mooshum was our second-favorite indoor entertainment. Television was the first. But our father had removed the television’s knobs and hidden them. Despite constant efforts, we couldn’t find the knobs, and we came to believe that he carried them on his person at all times. So instead we listened to our Mooshum. While he talked, we sat on kitchen chairs and twisted our hair. Our mother had given him a red Folgers coffee can for spitting snoose. He wore soft, worn green Sears work clothes, a pair of battered brown lace-up boots, and a twill cap, even in the house. His eyes shone from slits cut deep into his face. He was hunched and dried-out, with random wisps of white hair falling over his ears and neck. From time to time, as he spoke, we glimpsed the murky scraggle of his teeth. Still, such was his conviction in the telling of this story that it wasn’t hard at all to imagine him at twelve. My great-uncle put on his vestments, hand-me-downs from a Minneapolis parish. Since real incense was impossible to obtain, he stuffed the censer with dry sage rolled up in balls. Then he wet a comb at the cabin’s iron hand pump and slicked back his hair and his little brother’s hair. The church cabin was just across the yard, and wagons had been pulling up for the past hour or so, each with a dog or two tied in the box to keep the birds and their droppings off the piled hay where people would sit. The constant movement of the birds made some of the horses skittish. Many wore blinders and had bouquets of calming chamomile tied to their harnesses. As our Mooshum walked across the yard, he saw that the roof of the church was covered with birds that repeatedly—in play, it seemed—flew up and knocked one another off the holy cross that marked the cabin as a church. Great-Uncle was more than six feet tall, an imposing man, whose melodious voice carried over the confusion of sounds as he organized his parishioners into a line. The two brothers stood at the center, and with the faithful congregants spread out on either side they made their way slowly down the hill toward the first of the fields they hoped to clear. The sun was dull that day, thickly clouded over, and the air was oppressively still, so that pungent clouds of sage smoke hung all around the metal basket on its chain as it swung in each direction. In the first field, the doves were packed so tightly on the ground that there was a sudden agitation among the women, who could not move forward without sweeping the birds into their skirts. In panic, the birds tangled themselves in the cloth. The line halted suddenly as the women erupted in a raging dance, each twirling, stamping, beating, and flapping her skirts. So vehement was the dance that the birds all around them popped into flight, frightening other birds, and within moments the entire field was a storm of birds that roared and blasted down upon the people, who nonetheless stood firm with splayed missals on their heads. To move forward, the women forsook their modesty. They knotted their skirts up around their thighs, held out their rosaries or scapulars, and chanted the Hail Mary into the wind of beating wings. Mooshum, who had rarely seen a woman’s lower limbs, dropped behind, delighted. As he watched the women’s naked round brown legs thrash through the field, he lowered the candelabra that his brother had given him to protect his face. Instantly, he was struck on the forehead by a bird that hurtled from the sky with such force that it seemed to have been flung directly by God, to smite and blind him before he carried his sin of appreciation any further. At this point in the story, Mooshum often became so agitated that he acted out the smiting and, to our pleasure, mimed his collapse, throwing himself upon the floor. Then he opened his eyes and lifted his head and stared into space, clearly seeing, even now, the vision of the Holy Spirit, which appeared to him not in the form of a white bird among the brown doves but as the earthly body of a girl. Our family has something of a historical reputation for romantic encounters. My aunt Philomena, struck by the smile of a man on a passenger train, raised her hand from the ditch where she stood picking berries, and was unable to see his hand wave in return. But something made her stay there until nightfall and then camp there overnight, and wait quietly for another whole day until the man came walking back to her from the next stop, sixty miles ahead. My oldest cousin, Curtis, dated the Haskell Indian Princess, who cut her braids off and gave them to him the night she died of tuberculosis. He remained a bachelor, in her memory, until his fifties. My aunt Agathe left the convent for a priest. My cousin Eugene reformed a small-town stripper. Even my sedate-looking father was swept through the Second World War by one promising glance from my mother. And so on. These tales of extravagant encounter contrasted with the modesty of the subsequent marriages and occupations of my relatives. We are a tribe of office workers, bank tellers, booksellers, and bureaucrats. The wildest of us (Eugene) owns a restaurant, and the most heroic of us (my father) teaches seventh grade. Yet this current of drama holds together the generations, I think, and my brother and I listened to Mooshum not only to find out what had happened but also because we hoped for instructions on how to behave when our own moment of recognition, or romantic trial, should arrive. In truth, I thought that mine had probably already come, for even as I sat there listening to Mooshum my fingers obsessively spelled out the name of my beloved on my arm or in my hand or on my knee. I believed that if I wrote his name on my body a million times he would kiss me. I knew that he loved me, and he was safe in the knowledge that I loved him, but we attended a Roman Catholic grade school in the early nineteen-sixties, when boys and girls who were known to be in love hardly talked to each other and certainly never touched. We played softball and kickball together, and acted and spoke through other children who were eager to deliver messages. I had copied a series of these secondhand love statements into my tiny leopard-print diary, which had a golden lock. The key was hidden in the hollow knob of my bedstead. Also, I had written the name of my beloved, in blood from a scratched mosquito bite, along the inner wall of my closet. His name held for me the sacred resonance of those Old Testament words written in fire by an invisible hand. Mene, mene, tekel, upharsin. I could not say his name aloud. I could only write it with my fingers on my skin, until my mother feared I’d got lice and coated my hair with mayonnaise, covered my head with a shower cap, and told me to sit in a bath that was as hot as I could stand until my condition should satisfy her. I locked the bathroom door, controlled the hot water with my toe, and, since I had nothing else to do, decided to advance my name-writing total by several thousand. As I wrote, I found places on myself that changed and warmed in response to the repetition of those letters, and without an idea in the world what I was doing I gave myself successive alphabetical orgasms so shocking in their intensity and delicacy that the mayonnaise must have melted off my head. I then stopped writing on myself. I believed that I had reached the million mark, and didn’t dare try the same thing again. Ash Wednesday passed, and I was reminded that I was made of dust only and would return to dust as soon as life was done with me. My body, inscribed everywhere with the holy name Merlin Koppin (I can say it now), was only a temporary surface, soon to crumble like a leaf. As always, we entered the Lenten season aware that our hunger for sweets or salted pretzels or whatever we had given up was only a phantom craving. The hunger of the spirit alone was real. It was my good fortune not to understand that writing my boyfriend’s name on myself had been an impure act, so I felt that I had nothing worse to atone for than my collaboration with my brother’s discovery that pliers from the toolbox worked as well as knobs on the television. As soon as my parents were gone, we could watch “The Three Stooges”—our and Mooshum’s favorite, and a show that my parents thought abominable. It was Palm Sunday before my father happened to come home from an errand and rest his hand on the hot surface of the television and then fix us with the foxlike suspicion that his students surely dreaded. He got the truth out of us quickly. The pliers were hidden, along with the knobs, and Mooshum’s story resumed. The girl who would become my great-grandmother had fallen behind the other women in the field, because she was too shy to knot up her skirts. Her name was Junesse, and she, too, was twelve years old. The trick, she found, was to walk very slowly so that the birds had time to move politely aside instead of starting upward. Junesse wore a long white Communion dress made of layers of filmy muslin. She had insisted on wearing this dress, and the aunt who cared for her had given in but had promised to beat her if she returned with a rip or a stain. This threat, too, had deterred Junesse from joining in the other women’s wild dance. But now, finding herself alone with the felled candelabra-bearer, she perhaps forced their fate in the world by kneeling in a patch of bird slime to revive him, and then sealed it by using her sash to blot away the wash of blood from his forehead, where the bird had wounded him. And there she was! Mooshum paused in his story. His hands opened and the hundreds of wrinkles in his face folded into a mask of unsurpassable happiness. Her black hair was tied with a white ribbon. Her white dress had a bodice embroidered with white flower petals and white leaves. And she had the pale, heavy skin and slanting black eyes of the Métis women in whose honor a bishop of that diocese had written a warning to his priests, advising them to pray hard and to remember that although women’s forms could be inordinately fair, they were also savage and permeable. The Devil came and went in them at will. Of course, Junesse Malaterre was innocent, but she was also sharp of mind. Her last name, which came down to us from some French voyageur, refers to the cleft furrows of godless rock, the barren valleys, striped outcrops, and mazelike configurations of rose, gray, tan, and purple stone that characterize the Badlands of North Dakota. To this place Mooshum and Junesse eventually made their way. “We seen into each udder’s dept’ ” was how my Mooshum put it, in his gentle reservation accent. There was always a moment of silence among the three of us as the scene played out. Mooshum saw what he described. I don’t know what my brother saw—perhaps another boy. (He eventually came out to everyone at my parents’ silver-anniversary dinner party.) Or perhaps he saw that, after a whirl of experience and a minor car accident, he, too, would settle into the dull happiness of routine with his insurance-claims adjuster. As for me, I saw two beings—the boy shaken, frowning, the girl in white kneeling over him pressing the sash of her dress to the wound on his head, stanching the flow of blood. Most important, I saw their dark, mutual gaze. The Holy Spirit hovered between them. Her sash reddened. His blood defied gravity and flowed up her arm. Then her mouth opened. Did they kiss? I couldn’t ask Mooshum. She hadn’t had time to write his name on her body even once, and, besides, she didn’t know his name. They had seen into each other’s being, therefore names were irrelevant. They ran away together, Mooshum said, before either had thought to ask what the other was called. And then they decided not to have names for a while—all that mattered was that they had escaped, slipped their knots, cut the harnesses that their relatives had tightened. Junesse fled her aunt’s beating and the endless drudgery of caring for six younger cousins, who would all die the following winter of a choking cough. Mooshum fled the sanctified future that his brother had picked out for him. The two children in white clothes melted into the wall of birds. Their robes soon became as dark as the soil, and so they blended into the earth as they made their way along the edges of fields, through open country, to where the farmable land stopped and the ground split open and the beautifully abraded knobs and canyons of the Badlands began. Although it took them several years to physically consummate their feelings (Mooshum hinted at this but never came right out and said it), they were in love. And they were survivors. They knew how to make a fire from scratch, and for the first few days they were able to live on the roasted meat of doves. It was too early in the year for there to be much else to gather in the way of food, but they stole birds’ eggs and dug up weeds. They snared rabbits, and begged what they could from isolated homesteads. On the Monday that we braided our blessed palms in school, braces were put on my teeth. Unlike now, when every other child undergoes some sort of orthodonture, braces were rare then. It is really extraordinary that my parents, in such modest circumstances, decided to correct my teeth at all. Our dentist was old-fashioned, and believed that to protect the enamel of my front teeth from the wires he should cap them in gold. So one day I appeared in school with two long, resplendent front teeth and a mouth full of hardware. It hadn’t occurred to me that I’d be teased, but then somebody whispered, “Easter Bunny!” By noon recess, boys swirled around me, poking, trying to get me to smile. Suddenly, as if a great wind had blown everyone else off the bare gravel yard, there was Merlin Koppin. He shoved me and laughed right in my face. Then the other boys swept him away. I took refuge in the only sheltered spot on the playground, an alcove in the brick on the southern side facing the littered hulks of cars behind a gas station. I stood in a silent bubble, rubbing my collarbone where his hands had pushed, wondering. What had happened to our love? It was in danger, maybe finished. Because of golden teeth. Even then, such a radical change in feeling seemed impossible to bear. Remembering our family history, though, I rallied myself to the challenge. Included in the romantic tales were episodes of reversals. I had justice on my side, and, besides, when my braces came off I would be beautiful. Of this I had been assured by my parents. So as we were entering the classroom in our usual parallel lines, me in the girls’ line, he in the boys’, I maneuvered myself across from Merlin, punched him in the arm, hard, and said, “Love me or leave me.” Then I marched away. My knees were weak, my heart pounded. My act had been wild and unprecedented. Soon everyone had heard about it, and I was famous, even among the eighth-grade girls, one of whom, Tenny McElwayne, offered to beat Merlin up for me. Power was mine, and it was Holy Week. The statues were shrouded in purple except for our church’s exceptionally graphic Stations of the Cross. Nowadays, the Stations of the Cross are carved in tasteful wood or otherwise abstracted. But our church’s version was molded of plaster and painted with bloody relish. Eyes rolled to the whites. Mouths contorted. Limbs flailed. It was all there. The side aisles of the church were wide, and there was plenty of room for schoolchildren to kneel on the aggregate stone floor and contemplate the hard truths of torture. The most sensitive of the girls, and one boy, destined not for the priesthood but for a spectacular musical career, wept openly and luxuriantly. The rest of us, soaked in guilt or secretly admiring the gore, tried to sit back unobtrusively on our bottoms and spare our kneecaps. At some point, we were allowed into the pews, where, during the three holiest hours of the afternoon on Good Friday, with Christ slowly dying underneath his purple cape, we were supposed to maintain silence. During that time, I decided to begin erasing Merlin’s name from my body by writing it backward a million times: Nippok Nilrem. I began my task in the palm of my hand, then moved to my knee. I’d managed only a hundred when I was thrilled to realize that Merlin was trying frantically to catch my eye, a thing that had never happened before. As I’ve said, our love affair had been carried out by intermediaries. But my fierce punch seemed to have hot-wired his emotions. That he should be so impetuous, so desperate, as to seek me out directly! I was overcome with a wash of shyness and terror. I wanted to acknowledge Merlin, but I couldn’t now. I stayed frozen in place until we were dismissed. Easter Sunday. I am dressed in blue dotted nylon swiss. The seams prickle and the neck itches, but the over-all effect, I think, is glorious. I own a hat that has fake lilies of the valley on it and a stretchy band that digs into my chin. At the last moment, I beg to wear my mother’s lace mantilla instead, the one like Jackie Kennedy’s, headgear that only the most fashionable older girls wear. Nevertheless, I am completely unprepared for what happens when I return from taking Holy Communion. I am kneeling at the end of the pew. We are instructed to remain silent and to allow Christ’s presence to diffuse in us. I do my best. But then I see Merlin in the line for Communion on my side of the church, which means that on the way back to his seat he will pass only inches from me. I can keep my head demurely down, or I can look up. The choice dizzies me. And I do look up. He rounds the first pew. I hold my gaze steady. He sees that I am looking at him—freckles, dark slicked-back hair, narrow brown eyes—and he does not look away. With the Host of the Resurrection in his mouth, my first love gives me a glare of anguished passion that suddenly ignites the million invisible names. For one whole summer, my great-grandparents lived off a bag of contraband pinto beans. They killed the rattlesnakes that came down to the streambed to hunt, roasted them, used salt from a little mineral wash to season the meat. They managed to find some berry bushes and to snare a few gophers and rabbits. But the taste of freedom was eclipsed now by their longing for a good, hot dinner. Though desolate, the Badlands were far from empty; they were peopled in Mooshum’s time by unpurposed miscreants and outlaws as well as by honest ranchers. One day, Mooshum and Junesse heard an inhuman shrieking from some bushes deep in a draw where they’d set snares. Upon cautiously investigating, they found that they had snared a pig by its hind leg. While they were debating how to kill it, there appeared on a rise the silhouette of an immense person wearing a wide fedora and seated on a horse. They could have run, but as the rider approached them they were too amazed to move, or didn’t want to, for the light now caught the features of a giant woman dressed in the clothing of a man. Her eyes were small and shrewd, her nose and cheeks pudgy, her lip a narrow curl of flesh. One long braid hung down beside a large and motherly breast. She wore twill trousers, boots, chaps, leather gauntlets, and a cowhide belt with silver conchas. Her wide-brimmed hat was banded with the skin of a snake. Her brown bloodstock horse stopped short, polite and obedient. The woman spat a stream of tobacco juice at a quiet lizard, laughed when it jumped and skittered, then ordered the two children to stand still while she roped her hog. With swift and expert motions, she dismounted and tied the pig to the pommel of her saddle, then released its hind leg. “Climb on,” she commanded, gesturing at the horse, and when the children did she grasped the halter and started walking. The roped pig trotted along behind. By the time they reached the woman’s ranch, which was miles off, the two had fallen asleep. The woman had a ranch hand take them down, still sleeping, and lay them in a bedroom in her house, which was large and ramshackle, partly sod and partly framed. There were two little beds in the room, plus a trundle where she herself sometimes slept, snoring like an engine, when she was angry with her husband, the notorious Ott Black. In this place my Mooshum and his bride-to-be would live until they turned sixteen. In Erling Nicolai Rolfsrud’s compendium of memorable women and men from North Dakota, “Mustache” Maude Black is described as not unwomanly, though she smoked, drank, was a crack shot and a hard-assed camp boss. These things, my Mooshum said, were all true, as was the mention of both her kind ways and her habit of casual rustling. The last was just a sport to her, Mooshum said; she never meant any harm by it. Mustache Maude sometimes had a mustache, and sometimes, when she plucked it out, she didn’t. She kept a neat henhouse and a tidy kitchen. She grew very fond of Mooshum and Junesse, taught them to rope, ride, shoot, and make an unbeatable chicken-and-dumpling stew. Divining their love, she quickly banished Mooshum to the men’s bunkhouse, where he soon learned the many ways in which he could make children in the future with Junesse. He practiced in his mind, and could hardly wait. But Maude forbade their marriage until both were sixteen. When that day came, she threw a wedding supper that was talked about for years, featuring several delectably roasted animals that seemed to be the same size and type as those which had gone missing from the farms of the dinner guests. This caused a stir, but Maude kept the liquor flowing, and most of the ranchers shrugged it off. What was not shrugged off, what was truly resented, was the fact that Maude had thrown an elaborate shindig for a couple of Indians. Or half-breeds. It didn’t matter which. These were uncertain times in North Dakota. People’s nerves were still shot over what had happened to Custer, and every few years there occurred a lynching. Just a few years before, the remains of five men had been found, still strung from trees, supposedly the victims of a vigilante party led by Flopping Bill Cantrell. Some time later, an entire family was murdered and three Indians were caught by a mob and hanged for maybe doing it, including a boy named Paul Holy Track, who was only thirteen. The foul murder of a woman on a farm just to the west of Maude’s place caused the neighbors to disregard, in their need for immediate revenge, the sudden absence of that woman’s husband and to turn their thoughts to the nearest available Indian. There I was, Mooshum said. One night, the yard of pounded dirt between the bunkhouse and Maude’s sleeping quarters filled with men hoisting torches of flaring pitch. Their howls rousted Maude from her bed. As a precaution, she had sent Mooshum down to her kitchen cellar to sleep the night. So he knew what happened only through the memory of his wife, for he heard nothing and dreamed his way through the danger. “Send him out to us,” they bawled, “or we will take him ourselves.” Maude stood in the doorway in her nightgown, her holster belted on, a cocked pistol in either hand. She never liked to be woken from sleep. “I’ll shoot the first two of youse that climbs down off his horse,” she said, then gestured to the sleepy man beside her, “and Ott Black will plug the next!” The men were very drunk and could hardly control their horses. One fell off, and Maude shot him in the leg. He started screaming worse than the snared pig. “Which one of you boys is next?” Maude roared. “Send out the goddam Indian!” they called. But the yell had less conviction, punctuated, as it was, by the shot man’s hoarse shrieks. “What Indian?” “That boy!” “He ain’t no Indian,” Maude said. “He’s a Jew from the land of Galilee! One of the lost tribe of Israel!” Ott Black nearly choked at his wife’s wit. The men laughed nervously, and called for the boy again. “I was just having fun with you,” Maude said. “Fact is, he’s Ott Black’s trueborn son.” This threw the men back in their saddles. Ott blinked, then caught on and bellowed, “You men never knowed a woman till you knowed Maude Black!” The men fell back into the night and left their fallen would-be lyncher kicking in the dirt and pleading to God for mercy. Maybe Maude’s bullet had hit a nerve or a bone, for the man seemed to be in an unusual amount of pain for just a gunshot wound to the leg. He began to rave and foam at the mouth, so Maude tied him to his saddle and set out for the doctor’s. He died on the way from loss of blood. Before dawn, Maude came back, gave my great-grandparents her two best horses, and told them to ride hard back the way they had come. Which was how they ended up on their home reservation in time to receive their allotments, where they farmed using government-issue seed and plows and reared their six children, one of whom was my grandfather, and where my parents took us every summer just after the wood ticks had settled down. The story may have been true, for, as I have said, there really was a Mustache Maude Black who had a husband named Ott. Only the story changed. Sometimes Maude was the one to claim Mooshum as her son in the story and sometimes she went on to claim that she’d had an affair with Chief Gall. And sometimes she plugged the man in the gut. But if there was embellishment it had to do only with facts. St. Gabriel’s Church was named for God’s messenger, the archangel who currently serves as the patron saint of telecommunications workers. Those doves were surely the passenger pigeons of legend and truth, whose numbers were such that nobody thought they could ever be wiped from the earth. As Mooshum grew frailer and had trouble getting out of his chair, our parents relaxed their television boycott. More often now, our father fixed the magic circles of plastic onto their metal posts and twiddled them until the picture cleared. We sometimes all watched “The Three Stooges” together. The black-haired one looked a lot like the woman who had saved his life, Mooshum said, nodding and pointing at the set. I remember imagining his gnarled brown finger as the hand of a strong young man gripping the candelabra, which, by the way, my great-grandparents had lugged all the way down to the Badlands, where it had come in handy for killing snakes and gophers. They had given their only possession to Maude as a gesture of their gratitude. She had thrust it back at them the night they escaped. That tall, seven-branched silver-plated instrument, with its finish worn down to tin in some spots, now stood in a place of honor in the center of our dining-room table. It held beeswax tapers, which had been lit during Easter dinner. A month later, in the little alcove on the school playground, I kissed Merlin Koppin. Our kiss was hard, passionate, strangely mature. Afterward, I walked home alone. I walked very slowly. Halfway there, I stopped and stared at a piece of the sidewalk that I’d crossed a thousand times and knew intimately. There was a crack in it—deep, long, jagged, and dark. It was the day when the huge old cottonwood trees shed cotton. Their heart-shaped leaves ticked and hissed high above me. The air was filled with falling down, and the gutters were plump with a snow of light. I had expected to feel joy, but instead I felt a confusion of sorrow, or maybe fear, for it suddenly seemed that my life was a hungry story and I its source and with this kiss I had begun to deliver myself to the words. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Szmura’s Room	He stands at Szmura’s door, his left hand suspended in midair, reluctant to knock. Flanked by two suitcases, one of which is held together by a flayed rope, he is panting, out of shape and undernourished. He is clad in a dark coat, the collar striated with lint and dandruff, the sleeves tragicomically short, exposing his dirt-rimmed shirt cuffs. When Mike Szmura opens the door, wearing nothing but pajama bottoms and a front of frightening chest hair, Bogdan utters his lines in stuttering English. “Right off the boat,” Szmura says in a maliciously nasal voice and steps aside to let our boy enter the apartment, the roped suitcase banging at his ankles, the other one smashing against Szmura’s knee. At least, that is how Szmura described it to us later, exhibiting the obscure, alleged bruise on his knobby knee. We had interrupted our poker game (my two jacks were waiting to lure Szmura and Pumpek into surrendering their weekly income) so that Szmura could use his meagre narrative talents to depict and embellish Bogdan’s arrival. The other players—Pumpek and a couple of Realtor buddies he’d brought along to serve as suckers—were unabashedly American, and they waited impatiently for Szmura to finish so the game could go on. But, in a likely attempt to distract me from the game, Szmura added, “He is from your lousy country, Basnia, whatever you call it.” My two jacks promptly responded to the insult, and by the time I had raked in the loot with both hands I had forgotten all about the forlorn foreigner at Szmura’s door. At subsequent poker games, I learned more. Szmura attempted to entertain us with a repertoire of dumb-foreigner acts and bad-accent jokes featuring Bogdan, and from these performances I gathered that Bogdan was much like me, an oddity: a Ukrainian from Bosnia, although, unlike me, he was not from Sarajevo. Szmura had no interest in internal Bosnian cultural differences and presupposed that there was a deep, essential kinship between us, which is to say that by mocking Bogdan he was making me the target. I preferred taking his money to taking exception—he had reached the point of writing promissory notes, and I kept them, as if they were love notes, even after he’d made good on them. Bogdan had been delivered to Chicago through some lamentably narrow refugee channel—a Ukie priest knew a Ukie priest who knew about a cheap room at Szmura’s. The size of a closet, the room was in the apartment that Szmura rented from his ex-girlfriend’s grandmother, who blissfully decided to ignore the fact that Szmura had permanently and irreversibly dumped the apple of her eye shortly after banging her. As small as the room was, it echoed with emptiness. Bogdan parked his suitcases flat in the windowless corner, took a sheet and a blanket out of the unroped one, and spread them under the murky window—unequipped with mattress or duvet, this was where he would sleep. The room resembled an installation in a vacuous art gallery: the reflection of the ceiling bulb on the wood floor signifying the false surface of existence, the felled suitcases embodying the transitory nature of life—or, more specifically, the life of the subject, shrimped up in the corner against a bare, mispainted wall. Naturally, it was all very funny. During another poker game at Szmura’s (which I missed), everyone filed into Bogdan’s chamber and found the installation uproariously amusing: they guffawed to the verge of retching and fell to the existential floor, while Bogdan sat in his corner, perplexed by all the wisecracks about his artsy-fartsiness. He did eventually get an official tour of the apartment—an introduction to the Szmura world and its impenetrable mysteries. In the living room, with a sweeping movement of his hand, Szmura offered his furniture to Bogdan’s eye: the crimson sofa, with its wide U shape and stern, flat armrests—for some reason, Szmura referred to it as “the Puerto Rican”—and the claret velvet armchair facing it over a pseudo-Oriental coffee table, all Chinese curves and Japanese angles. Bogdan could peruse the Puerto Rican when Szmura was absent, he was told; otherwise the armchair was available. Next, Bogdan had to inspect the collection of objects on the mantelpiece, which consisted of an upright bullet casing that Szmura’s venerable father had brought back from Vietnam; a glass ashtray full of foreign coins (mainly kopecks and zlotys); a bottle of Grolsch beer (“Be very careful,” Szmura said, “ ’coz this bottle is from Florida”); and a figurine of a sow, complete with swollen teats, that was left unmentioned. Bogdan also glanced out the window, which overlooked the same alley as the one in his room. There was nothing to see, of course, except a garage door inching downward like a stage curtain, and a few fallen deciduous leaves slipping inside before it closed. In the bathroom, Bogdan was shown the hooks that Szmura used to hang his upper-body (navy blue) and lower-body (azure) towels and his carmine silk robe with a fire-breathing dragon on the back—Bogdan was assigned the fourth hook. He was also told that he must make a habit of lifting the toilet seat, should he put it down for the big dookie, and that he must never shave or piss in the shower. Finally, Szmura pushed a little jar into his face, its bottom lined with yellowish mites—this was where Szmura collected the wormy stuff from his nose pores. In the kitchen, Bogdan was warned that the mug inscribed with “Mikola,” its chipped brim adorned with traditional Ukrainian patterns, was never to be touched. The fridge contained a bowl of intensely red vine tomatoes (“they make the blood strong”), along with Szmura’s black dress shoes on a tray; a plate of rotting shrimp; and a jar of Vaseline, which Bogdan could not fail to conclude was deployed for some form of self-abuse. They did not dwell long over the contents of the pantry. Suffice it to mention a large number of Shake ’n Bake boxes stacked up on the bottom shelf, and an impressive collection of Campbell’s soup cans lined up in alphabetical order on the top two shelves: Shelf No. 1, from Asparagus to Minestrone; Shelf No. 2, from Mushroom to Vegetable. The soup was not for Bogdan, Szmura declared. Were he ever to open a can, he would have to replenish the collection the very same day. Concluding the tour, Szmura flung open the door of his own bedroom, and exposed briefly a darkness into which the light cut a lambent half-rhomboid. Bogdan was never to enter this room, not even if invited. “Think of it,” Szmura said, “as a minefield.” Szmura, however, would often freely enter Bogdan’s room, opening the door violently. He would launch into monolithic monologues welcoming Bogdan to this great country, which had been built by immigrants, including Szmura’s own Ukrainian grandparents, who’d had to pull themselves up by their bootstraps and now had a condo in Orlando—which was great, because it meant that there was an opportunity for everybody in this country, even a fuckface D.P. like Bogdan. Bogdan could tell that Szmura enjoyed these speeches; he would stroke the hair coppice on his forearms as he spoke, as if petting himself. Szmura’s manner of door-opening was closely linked to his fantasies of becoming an F.B.I. special agent: he was an intern at a law office and watched “Cops” regularly, all in preparation for the F.B.I. entrance exam, which he would take as soon as he graduated from Loyola Law School. Bogdan was made privy to Szmura’s F.B.I. fantasies after he unwisely agreed to a demonstration of a submission technique and quickly found himself on the floor, with Szmura’s knee pressing against his jugular, his elbow and shoulder about to pop. “I could kill you, if I wanted to,” Szmura said matter-of-factly before he let him go. Szmura was also a note-leaver. Every morning, Bogdan would find on the kitchen table a note in a taut, wiry handwriting that corresponded somehow to the essence of Szmura: the letter “T” was like his body—straight, slim, angular. The notes occasionally welcomed him again (“Feel at home”), but more often they were directives (“Wash the damn dishes”) or announcements (“Rent due Tuesday”). There were some that stretched themselves thin between nonsense and poetry (“The fireplace is not real”). When Szmura, abruptly and inexplicably, started writing them down in verse form, Bogdan began collecting them. One day, from the desert covering the ruins of Chicago, a rusty box full of faded patches of paper will be excavated, and some good archeologist will discover the soul of a perished civilization in these abstruse verses: The door is either Open or locked I like Locked Or: Your socks are all over How many fucking feet do you have? You are not alone here, buddy Not alone Predictably, Bogdan often retreated to his hollow room, lying in the dark, palpating the wall, as if looking for an escape tunnel. Szmura would sometimes bring home a woman—he had an unmistakable taste for the meretricious kind—and Bogdan would listen to their coital exchanges, which always seemed rehearsed, as though they were auditioning for a porn flick. She would implore Szmura to put his big dick inside her, and he would say, Oh yeah, so that’s what you want, bitch, and she would say, Yeah, gimme your big dick, and he would say, Oh yeah, so that’s what you want, bitch, and so it would go, until they approached the climax, when she would squeal in frequencies peculiar to the sound of a wet finger rubbing against glass, while Szmura would embark upon a volley of “fuck”s: fuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuckfuck. He occasionally encouraged his sticky companions to stop by Bogdan’s room and volunteer some secondhand erotic kindness. Only one of them actually did: wearing nothing but roller skates, a buxom part-time Wicker Park waitress purred kittenishly and scratched on his door. Unable to comprehend what was going on, frightened by the screeching of the roller skates on the floor, Bogdan didn’t stir. The following morning, Szmura left a note saying, “It was a hit and run / Bo / That’s all it was.” I do not know what Bogdan made of Szmura, or how aware he was of his insanity. Perhaps he was misled (as I had been) by Szmura’s occasional human impulses: he bequeathed his Shake ’n Bake collection to the Ukie church, to be distributed to newly arrived immigrants; he was known to leave a tip even if the waitress was not fuckable; and one time he left a note saying, “If a bird flies in, let her out.” Most misleading of all, I think, was the polite good-boy manner that Szmura employed when discoursing with Pany Mayska, his landlady. The day after Bogdan moved in, Szmura took him across the hall and knocked at Pany Mayska’s door, a nosegay of fragrant lilies in hand. They heard the slow shuffle of her feet, and Szmura said, “Now, be nice here. No talking out of your ass.” He scowled and rescowled, raising his upper lip and distending his nostrils—a grimace that Bogdan would one day learn to recognize as threatening. Pany Mayska was puny, her face powdered and centered on a small, rouged mouth, her hair sparse, exposing the white streaks of her skull. She wore a pointy bra that might have been alluring half a century ago but now served as a scaffold for her cavernous chest. Szmura greeted her in Ukrainian and kissed her on the cheek, while she grabbed his lilyless hand and did not let him withdraw it, pulling him in. Her fingers were like claws, withered and twisted. Her apartment reeked of pee and pierogi, of cleanliness and ironed bedsheets. The smell travelled quickly through Bogdan’s synapses until it reached the room where his grandmother had died: Ukrainian handiwork of the same geometric pattern multiplied on the tablecloth and the cushions; obsolete church calendars scattered around; a pensive etching of the poet Taras Shevchenko, glowering over his scrubby mustache; icons of bent-neck Virgins with chunky toddlers at their bosoms. Szmura asked after Pany Mayska’s health and she said it was fine—both of them all hearty smiles. Szmura might have slapped her on the back had it not been for her frailty. And how was Victor, her grandson? Oh, he was fine, uncovering ancient Slavic grave sites near Kharkiv. He’d be home by Christmas. And how was Oksana? Ah, she still didn’t have a boyfriend. “Mikola, I would have liked so much to have you as my grandson-in-law.” “Pani Majcka, I am too young to get married,” Szmura said. She sighed pensively, as if Mike Szmura were the unfulfilled love of her own youth, her vanished dream. Bogdan sat and listened with a general grin that suggested that he was interested but not prying. She stood up with creaking difficulty and reached for a bowl on the immaculately clean counter. When she put the bowl down on the table, it was full of crescent cookies. “And who are you?” she asked, pushing the bowl toward Bogdan. He gently jerked his head to express his willingness to taste a cookie, and then he told her who he was, with fatigued detachment, as if retelling the plot of a tedious Eastern European movie. Szmura had told him that Pany Mayska used to work as a radiologist, taking X-rays of smokers’ scorched lungs and the smashed hips of adventurous seniors. She was so fucking irradiated, Szmura said, that she glowed in the dark, bones coiling in her body, everything inside her rotting splendidly. Perhaps it was owing to her radioactivity that Bogdan could always sense her before she knocked at their door. He would sometimes reach the door before she had even opened hers. Through the peephole, he could see her wobble over with a plateful of pierogi. She knew that Szmura was at work during the day, but she always asked after Mikola. She never agreed to come in, but she stood at the door and made Bogdan tell her, all over again, what he had told her the first time: that he was a Ukrainian from Bosnia, from a small town called Prnjavor; that he used to own a photo shop; that he had been forced to fight for the Serbs in the war and had escaped with nothing but the clothes he wore; and that he now worked at a Jewel supermarket, packing bags until he could find something better. After Bogdan had delivered his last line, she’d hand him the plate, covered with a flimsy serviette and decorated with the same Ukrainian pattern that dominated the rest of her habitat. Then she’d deliver her own lines in the following sequence: (a) it was terrible what was going on in Bosnia; it reminded her of the Great Famine, when millions of Ukrainians died; she prayed that it would end soon; (b) did Bogdan ever think about all the places where Ukrainians could be found: we were everywhere, from Bosnia to the jungles of Uruguay; and (c) Ukrainians were very visual people, people who liked pictures; take Disney, for example, who was one of us, a Disnya—he got his many ideas, his artistic inspirations, from Ukrainian national culture, and from our love of nature. As rehearsed, Bogdan would extend his mouth into a serious smile and tighten his stomach muscles to suppress any laughter at the idea that Donald Duck was part of his heritage, that Goofy was Ukrainian. He grew to like Pany Mayska and her pastries, and he learned to bask in the glow of her radiation. Since she had retired, she volunteered at the Museum of Ukrainian Culture and History, a funereal three-story building right across the parking lot from the Jewel where Bogdan worked. Once, I saw him wandering over there in a green apron and a cap that would have been fashionable in Eastern Europe decades ago. (I was pretty sure it was him; I hadn’t met him yet, but the tired gait, more than anything else, gave him away.) Pany Mayska opened the door and waived the two-dollar entrance fee with an understanding nod. Bogdan stepped into a room suffused with a green darkness, its light dammed by heavy curtains. She looked even smaller and more radiant in the sepulchral murk. Bogdan followed her, feigning interest, past painted wooden eggs and sallow bobbin-lace, his chest reverberating with sorrow. It all made him think of the shabby armoire in his grandparents’ bedroom, which he had dug through as a child, in search of the creased photos from their childhood. Pany Mayska ascended the stairs to a room that told, she said, the story of our people. The room was curtainless, with dust particles floating all around as the sunlight blazed outside. She pointed at a glass case under the window: a cracked bread trough, an eagle-shaped medal coated with psoriatic rust; a letter whose cursive was melting into bluish waves. Bogdan wondered whether the letter had been brought over from the old country or never sent back from this one. Then they walked along the walls, studying photos of ghastly, famine-wasted peasants lined up for the camera, as if for execution, and portraits of stiff, black-and-white men who had come over a long time ago, their eyes bulging as their tightly knotted ties cut off their airflow. Pany Mayska stopped in front of a picture of a pinheaded man with a thick mustache and round thin-rimmed glasses—this was her husband, she said, with a quiver in her voice. And then they went downstairs, to the small kitchen, where Bogdan accepted a glass of diluted raspberry concentrate, a bagful of almost expired TV dinners that she just happened to have lying around, and a report on how she had once caught Oksana and Szmura kissing, and they were only twelve years old! I must confess that I waited in the Jewel’s parking lot with the intention of intercepting Bogdan. It was time, I thought, for us to meet. He reminded me a lot of myself, as I had been not so long ago: I, too, had had to deal with the conundrum of the Social Security number, with the recondite rules of baseball, and with the immutable laws of living with Szmura. I, too, had resisted the temptation to slurp Szmura’s soup and had accepted bags of TV dinners and dried Twinkies from Pany Mayska. Once, she had even lent me money, which I had never paid back—which was why I avoided her now, crossing the street whenever I saw her hobbling arthritically toward me. When Bogdan stepped out of the museum, carrying a weighty paper bag, he appeared taller, clumsily hunched forward, much like Goofy. I accosted him close to the cart rack. It surprised me that he wasn’t surprised. He recognized me, he said—I looked like my cousin Roman, with whom he had gone to school back in Prnjavor. I had practiced my lines. I had planned to inquire about his parents and offer him my generous help. I wanted to tell him to get the hell out of Szmura’s place as soon as he could. Instead, I found myself nodding meaninglessly, like a congenitally embarrassed American, to convey that he had my support and understanding, even if I could not comprehend what he was talking about. “You will never know what you escaped,” he said. “You will never know how lucky you are.” He told me how he had buried his parents in their back yard. He had been conscripted into the Serb Army and fought at Derventa. He had seen unspeakable things: people forced into minefields, pregnant women cut open, eyes gouged out with rusty spoons, his fellow-soldiers pissing into a mass grave. All he’d been able to think of was escaping, so much so that he had felt relief when his parents died—though I don’t know if he said this or I just inferred it. Jewel customers—young blond mothers, old men reeking of mothballs, drunks with paper-bagged Wild Irish Rose—were responsibly returning their carts to the rack. “It is painful to remember what I cannot forget,” he said, possibly quoting a Ukrainian song I did not know. So I made up an incontestably urgent task, expressed my eagerness to get together soon, offered unspecified help, and took off across the lot. After that, I avoided him for years. “That museum, it creeps me out, man,” Szmura said, shuddering. “Why the fuck would Bo go there?” “I don’t know,” I said. “Maybe it reminds him of home. Maybe he gets cozy with old Mayska.” “Maybe you can write a nice story about that one day,” Pumpek said. “Right now, you gotta deal.” “I don’t understand those people. That fucking old bitch has lived in this fucking country for fifty fucking years, and all she talks about is our people and the famine and Disney and fucking Ukraine,” Szmura said. “Deal,” Pumpek said. “It is heartbreaking,” I said. “All that sorrow.” “It is dick-breaking,” Szmura said. “You know what the Ukie anthem is? ‘Ukraine hasn’t died yet.’ Hasn’t fucking died yet! Well, let it die, man. This is America, not a psychiatric, you know, facility.” “Deal,” Pumpek said. I dealt, to Szmura and Pumpek and the two real-estate guys, who said nothing, all gambling ice and calculation. One of them kept shuffling his chips while staring straight at me, obviously (and foolishly) designating me as the sucker. The other stood up and got himself a beer. I realized they were brothers. “I am worried about Bo,” Szmura said. “I want him to start living in America, stop living in the past. Those old vampires are not good for him. And he’s not even from Ukraine, he’s from fucking Basnia. I’m gonna take him under my wing. We gotta integrate him in this society.” “Integrate,” the brother with the beer said all of a sudden. “Where’d you learn such a fancy word?” And so Szmura took Bogdan under his vulture’s wing. He gave him impromptu lessons in American history: he made him admire the big balls that graced the groins of the Founding Fathers; he narrated the great epic of saving the world from the freedom-hating menace, in several installments (Vietnam, Grenada, the Gulf); he encouraged him to watch television, to appreciate the richness of American culture; he painted the vast canvas of capitalism in a few simple strokes—free market, free enterprise, money in the bank. One day, he invited Bogdan to sit in on a business meeting he was going to have with an acquaintance. Perhaps Bogdan was truly excited to learn something at the Szmura Institute of Integration, but it was more likely that it was much too complicated for him to say no. Besides, Szmura had offered to let him sleep, on weeknights, on the Puerto Rican couch. “All I want you to do,” Szmura said, “is to sit there and say nothing. If I start going after the guy, or grab him by the neck, stop me. I want you to stop me.” He installed Bogdan on the Puerto Rican, and put a bottle of Jack Daniel’s at the center of the coffee table and a bowl of cherry tomatoes next to it. He told Bogdan that the guy who was coming over needed a favor and that it was hard for him to say no, “ ’coz the guy’s father is the mayor of Springbrook.” That, of course, did not sound particularly impressive to Bogdan, but before he could ask anything Szmura was off to the kitchen to get glasses. Light filtered through the whiskey bottle and an ochre penumbra flickered on the table. “Everyone knows that Springbrook is a Mob town,” Szmura yelled from the kitchen. “This guy’s dad has, you know, connections, and they could be useful when I’m with the F.B.I.” Naturally, Bogdan was uneasy at the idea of being caught between the Mob and the F.B.I., but he was titillated, too, as anyone would be. When the bell rang, he leaned back in the Puerto Rican, crossed his legs, intertwined his fingers over his stomach, and tried to relax his face so it would appear sullen and cold. Szmura walked in with a tall, skinny dude in a baseball hat, seated him in the armchair, and sat next to Bogdan, whom he introduced as his “friend and associate.” Jack was poured (by Bogdan); thoughts on certain celebrity chicks and their fake tits were exchanged. The skinny dude was sweating, and Szmura was spreading his arms across the back of the Puerto Rican, his forearm touching the back of Bogdan’s head. He and the skinny guy both glanced at Bogdan at the same time, as if he were a conduit for an encoded transmission. “Tell me, Michael,” Szmura finally said. “How can I help you?” “Here’s my problem,” Michael said, “and I don’t want you to misunderstand my position here.” Bogdan felt the intense presence of Szmura and Michael in the room; he smelled their semi-criminal arousal, and everything, everything decelerated. There was a woman, Michelle. She was a great, fantastic chick, and Michael sort of loved her. (Bogdan imagined her: tall, graceful, and pensive.) But she had been having a bit of a drug problem. It had started out in college; a little pot, some E, occasionally some hard stuff, but only on weekends and holidays, when everyone else was doing it. (He saw a dark basement thumping with degenerate music, youths slumped in the corners, the whites of their eyes webbed with blood.) Michael himself had dropped it all, owing to his baseball and all, and he’d been working real hard—no booze, no drugs, just clean pussy. There had been some interest from minor leagues, pretty serious, too, the Cubs’ stable team, no less, a lot of money in the offing, a lot. Michelle, though, had not quit partying. She swore she got high only on weekends, but then Michael found out from a buddy of his that she was, in fact, doing shitloads of drugs. She had been fucking her dealer, too, his buddy said, so Michael confronted her. (Bogdan envisioned a soundless screaming match, tears pouring off her round cheeks.) She was sorry and shit, but she admitted that she was full-hooked on coke and she owed a lot of money to her dealer, some cultural-studies creep. He had forced her to fuck him. (A closeup of a woman’s hand against a hairy back.) Michael went and talked to the creep, told him to fuck off. But the multi-culti motherfucker wanted his money back. He was entitled to it, he had earned it, and he had some pretty big ass-whupping friends. Michael was afraid that he might force Michelle to fuck other guys to pay the debt. (A tableaux of panting, unctuous bodies, limbs entangled like mating snakes.) “I hear ya,” Szmura said. “So you wanna pay him off?” “Yeah,” Michael said. He needed to clean up the mess; he needed to put his money where his dick was. Otherwise, it would fuck up his baseball career, and baseball was his life. Bogdan did not entirely understand all this, but the grandeur of Michael’s dilemma did not escape him. “There’s plenty of pussy in the sea,” Szmura said. “I am afraid I like to swim in my own pool.” “Why don’t you talk to your dad?” “My family is not known for sensitivity,” he said. “I just wanna pay the motherfucker and get my woman off his dick. I’d love to have his limbs scattered all over rural Illinois, but I gotta be realistic.” Szmura looked at Bogdan, as if telepathically consulting with him. “Twenty-five per cent,” he said. “Standard rate among friends. How much do you need?” “Ten Gs.” “I’ll have the money for you tomorrow, and a promissory note to sign, too.” “I’ll sign whatever you want me to.” “Fantastic,” Szmura said with a snort of approbation. He grabbed a handful of tomatoes and popped them, one by one, into his mouth. “Don’t take this personally, Michael,” he said, “but I feel that it is my professional obligation to mention that I would have to take measures, you know, should you fail to make a scheduled payment. I might, for one, have to talk to your dad.” “Understandable,” Michael slurred. “And for the sake of my business image”—he glanced at Bogdan, who beamed with voyeuristic trepidation—“I might have to punish you. Nothing big, certainly not enough to endanger your baseball career, but I’m gonna have to send Bo here to address the problem.” “Understandable,” Michael said, and looked at Bogdan, who, out of discomfort, folded his hands into fists—doubtless looking to Michael as if he were preparing to smash his face in. “Bogdan here,” Szmura said, “is from Basnia. There was a war there, horrible stuff. He has seen things that you and I cannot begin to imagine. They slice people up over there like fucking kielbasa. So he is a little troubled, if you get what I mean. He’s a bit beyond therapy. But I’m sure he’ll be able to control himself, now that he knows you.” Here Bogdan fully assumed his role: he flexed his neck; he grinned at Michael, and his left incisor sparkled with the menace of a war criminal. Then he muttered, “Yes,” in a deep, Slavic voice, and grabbed a couple of tomatoes. Szmura leaned back into the Puerto Rican and spread his legs triumphantly, as if to exhibit the size of his testosterone-choked testicles. A few days later, spring parachuted into Chicago: the air was abruptly warm and fragrant, the grass was suddenly green, as if it had been painted overnight. Bogdan started growing a mustache and dreamed of buying a camera. He established an after-work ritual that involved lounging on the Puerto Rican, reading the weather forecast (“Mild with gusty morning T-storms. Clear skies in the afternoon”) while sipping a thimbleful of Jack on the rocks. His life began to contain small, repeatable pleasures. Szmura even took him out for drinks once, to the Rainbo Club, no less, where they would have picked up two redheaded sisters, had it not been for Bogdan’s reticence. I watched them, from the far corner, where I was partly hidden behind an excitable pinball machine, as Szmura did the charming, while Bogdan stared at his almost empty glass—he avoided finishing the drink because he couldn’t afford to buy a round. He didn’t say a word, just kept looking up at one of the sisters (her name was Julia) and smiling sheepishly. Szmura kept buying drinks, and finally he delivered his killer pickup line: “When you get fucked up, we can take you home.” Such boldness had worked for him before, but this time the sisters just stood up and left, Julia bestowing a parting glance at Bogdan, which Szmura interpreted as an invitation to a fuckfest. Bogdan spent the night taking long imaginary walks with Julia, holding her imaginary hand, but didn’t, in the end, dare to imagine making love to her on the spine-twisting Puerto Rican. Dawn arrived with a fanfare of chirruping sparrows, and Bogdan passed out under the weight of what could very loosely be called happiness. He woke up late and scratched his stomach and buttocks for a while, yawning. He sauntered over to the kitchen and poured himself a cup of the feeble coffee that Szmura had kindly prepared. Then he read the note that Szmura had left on the table. He stood up to add cream to his coffee, then read it again, and this time he understood what it meant: I am afraid, Bo, You gonna have to go I need your room Michael is bringing Michelle Pussy protection program Pay what you can And leave In Bosnia, there is a typically cruel and precise idiom that is used to describe the behavior and movement of a frightened person—such an individual is said to act like a beheaded fly. Here was the headless Bogdan flying to his room to take off his pajamas, then collapsing on the Puerto Rican to stare for a long time at the unreal fireplace. Finally, he made it back to his room to put on his Jewel uniform, and then he headed for the pantry, as if looking for a place to hide. There he found himself facing the soup collection, despair grinding through his bowels. He read every label carefully, examined each can—but Asparagus remained stubbornly silent, Onion and Split Pea regarded him with hatred, and he had no choice but to put his faith in the strength of Tomato. He poured what resembled congealed blood into a pot and waited for a blistery boil to break the surface. He ravenously slurped up the potion, while reading the note again, his blue shirt sprinkled with drops of red. Pany Mayska’s radiation enveloped him before he had even knocked at her door. When she appeared, wearing slippers with pompoms at the end of their curled tips, as if she were an aging princess from Baghdad, he told her about Szmura’s note. She pressed her hand against her chest and gasped, acknowledging the imminence of hurt and humiliation. But she said she believed that Mikola had only done what he had to do; he meant well, and it was a very small room anyway. Bogdan wanted her dried lips against his cheek; he wanted her to hold his perspiring hand and comfort him, as his grandmother would have, but she stood away. She offered to let him stay at the museum—there was an empty room in the back—until he figured something out. A cloudlet of boiled-dough smell wafted out of her apartment, and Bogdan had the heart-wrenching feeling that he was saying goodbye to her. She gasped understandingly again, and withdrew back into the darkness of her home. The door to Szmura’s room was as heavy as cast iron, as if it led to a dungeon. Bogdan entered, fully aware that once he was inside there would be no turning back. He saw a dishevelled bed, a scree of comforter in the center, a head crater in the pillow. A full beaker of water stood by the bed, bubbles pressed against its glass wall. A tie stretched across the chair, like a severed tendon. The digital clock hysterically flashed 12:00. A book (“Chicken Soup for the Baseball Fan’s Soul”) spread its wings on the floor. From under the bed, a pair of stolid twenty-pound dumbbells protruded just enough for Bogdan to stub his big toe. In the closet, suits were lined up, in a spectrum of colors from azure to navy; below the suits, Szmura’s shoes stood in an impeccably slanted row, like cars in a parking lot. The underwear occupied different shelves: the boxers on the top, the jockeys on the bottom, the undershirts in the middle, precisely aligned in stacks. On the wall above Szmura’s desk hung a map of Florida, with an inset of the Keys. On the desk there were piles of inscrutable papers; pencil shavings (calling up the smell of school in Prnjavor: pencils, the wet eraser sponge, and girls’ freshly washed hair); a computer monitor in which Bogdan could see a bent reflection of himself; a tin cookie box containing baseball cards, fluorescent condoms, a pouch of pot. In the drawer, a black ball of socks; a grotesquely orange orange; a roll of twenty-dollar bills. Bogdan unrolled it and counted the money: twenty-three hundred dollars—he took eighty, then rolled it back up. There was a holstered .38-calibre gun in another drawer, loaded and heavy. He unlocked it and pointed it at the window. Bang. Bang. He put the barrel in his mouth: it tasted metallic, bitter and sweet. A tongue of paper was hanging out of the fax machine: “Stock Alert!” and a confirmation from South Beach Heaven, “An Escort Service You Can Trust.” In the garbage can, he found a drawing of a dog humping a smiley face with the inscription “Fuck Ya!” On the windowsill, a rotten cactus perched over a pile of photos, almost all featuring Szmura with a multicolored cocktail in his hand, surrounded by a choir of sunny young men and women. At the bottom of the pile, there was a sallow photo of a boy sitting sideways on a luge, his wool-capped head deposited despondently on his knees, surrounded by flat whiteness. Bogdan recognized the soporific sadness of the boy, the feeling of being stuck outside in the cold when one wanted to be inside, at home and warm. He was folding the photo to put it in his pocket when Szmura charged across the room, leaping over the bed, and blew Bogdan’s left eye right out of the socket with his first punch. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Suckers	My father was ill. Not yet close to dying. I used to go down from London at weekends to see him. I used to think how shabby his house was, more a cottage than a house, how dusty and smoky, how much in need of a coat of paint, and that was what my father thought, too. He thought that it was too little to be left with after a life of work and worry. But duty is duty, and one of my big worries was finding someone to look after the house for my father. There was a time when a substantial portion of the population was in domestic service. There was no problem then. A certain amount of coming and going, but no lasting problem. When you read books from before the war, you notice, if you have this particular worry on your mind, that people quite easily left their houses and went away visiting for days and weeks. Servants gave them that freedom. Now the servant class has vanished. No one knows what the servants have metamorphosed into. One thing we can be sure of is that we have not lost them, that they are still in varying ways with us, in culture and attitudes of dependence. In every town and large village, we now have ancillary council estates, clusters of subsidized dwellings meant originally for the poor. These clusters are recognizable even from the train. They have a deliberate socialist ugliness, a conscious suppression of those ideas of beauty and humanity that rise naturally from the heart. There can be no absolute match of one age with another, but I wouldn’t be surprised if the percentage of people at one time in domestic service isn’t matched now by the numbers on these council estates. And, of course, it is to these places that we have to look for help with our houses. We put our pleading little cards in the local newsagent’s window. In due course, the cleaning people come. And, in due course, they go. And, since no one keeps an inventory in his mind of all that he has in his house, it is only after they have left that we realize that this is missing and that has gone. Dickens set Fagin’s thieves’ kitchen in the Seven Dials area of London, around what is now Tottenham Court Road, with the bookshops. From there, Fagin sent his little people out to pick a pathetic little purse or lift a pretty handkerchief. Fearful to Dickens, these wanderers abroad, but to us so innocent, so daring. Today, circumstances require us actually to invite the Artful Dodger and his crew into our house, and the insurance companies tell us, too late, that nothing lost in this way can ever be redeemed. Strange and various needs the modern Dodgers have: all the sugar in a house, perhaps; all the coffee; the envelopes; half the underclothes; every piece of pornography. Life in these circumstances becomes, in a small way, a constant gamble and an anxiety. We all learn to live with it. And, in fact, after much coming and going we at last found someone suitable for my father’s house. Jo was a country girl, but very much up to the minute, single, with a couple of children, dually fathered, if that is grammatically possible, who brought her quite a tidy sum every week. She spoke of people being of “good stock,” and she seemed to suggest that after her early mistakes she was striving for higher things. This didn’t impress me. I took it as a mark of criminality. I have known criminals all my professional life, and in my experience this is how criminals like to present themselves. But I was wrong about this woman. She stayed, and was good and reliable. She was in her thirties, educated, able to write reasonably well, an elegant dresser (buying stylish things cheap from mail-order firms), and her manners were good. She stayed for six, seven, eight years. She became a fixture. I began—almost—to take her for granted. I took good care all this time to show no interest in her private life. I am sure that it was quite complicated, given her looks, but I never wanted to know. I feared being dragged down into the details. I didn’t want to know that Simon, a builder, was like this, or Michael, a taxi-driver, was like that. I used to go down to the cottage on Friday evenings. One Saturday morning she told me, without any prompting, that she had had a hard week. So hard that one night she had come to the cottage, parked her car in the little drive, and cried. I asked why she had come to the cottage to cry. She said, “I have nowhere else to go. I knew that your father wouldn’t mind. And after all these years I regard the cottage as my home.” I understood what she meant; it tore at my heart, but even then I genuinely didn’t want to know the details. And, of course, in time she got over that crisis and was as serene and stylish and well mannered as ever. Some time passed. And then again I began to understand that there was something new in Jo’s life. Not a man, but a woman. Someone new on the council estate, or someone just discovered. The other woman’s name was Marian. She was artistic; she made curtains and painted earthenware plates. She infected Jo with a wish to do similar things. On weekends I began to hear about the expensiveness of kilns. Six or eight hundred pounds. I had the idea that I was being asked, in the name of art and Jo’s general social endeavor, to spend some money on an electric home kiln. A business expense, which would apparently be recovered in no time. As it was, Jo was getting almost no return on her craft and art. By the time she had paid for the plain earthenware plates on which she did her painting, of flowers or dogs or tiny kittens in teacups, and then for the baking of her painted plates by a kiln owner on the council estate, for the renting of a stall at a craft fair, for the travel to the fair—by the time she had done all that, she was showing no profit at all. I imagined her sitting forlornly beside her goods at the fair, as an ancestor in long skirts and clogs might have sat in a simpler time beside her eggs in a village market, ready at the end of the weary day to exchange everything for a handful of magic seeds. Sometimes in London, a go-ahead young art dealer whom you have just got to know invites you to dinner. And it seems at first that everything in his austerely laid-out house or flat is exceptionally tasteful and well chosen, the enviable discoveries of an unusual eye. When at last you feel you must remark on the long and lovely old oak table on which you are dining, you are told that it is for sale, along with everything else you have seen. You realize then that you have been invited not just to dinner but to an exhibition, the way a developer might ask you to a show house, for a little more than the pleasure of your company. So now it was with Jo. She began on Saturday mornings to undo big, heavy bundles of her work—painted plates, enamel-and-wire work, very streaky landscapes and portraits in wax, charcoal drawings of animals, watercolors of rivers and willows. Everything that could be framed was framed, with very big mounts; that was why the bundles were so heavy. These Saturday exhibitions put me on the spot. I actually was interested. It was moving to me to see these stirrings of the spirit where I had expected nothing. But to express interest was to encourage the display of another big bundle the following Saturday. To say then that there was real talent there and that it might be a good idea for her to take drawing or watercolor lessons drew no response from her. It was not what she wanted to hear. Somehow the idea had been given to her that talent was natural and couldn’t be forced or trained. When I said that one piece showed a big development, she said, “I guess it was all there.” She was speaking of the bubbling up of her talent, and she was not boasting. She might as well have been talking of something outside herself. I felt that these semi-political ideas about the naturalness of artistic talent—and its classlessness: there was more than a hint of that—had been given to her by someone. I thought it might be her new friend Marian. It took me a little time to understand that Jo had been presenting her work to me not for my criticism but because she wanted me to buy her work; she wanted me to tell my London friends about her. I was a craft fair all on my own. And so was my father. The work Jo brought on Saturday mornings was not hers alone. There were many pieces by Marian, and she was generous about them. No jealousy there. I began to feel that these two women, one encouraging the other, had become awed by themselves. They were ordinary people, but their talent made them remarkable, above the common run of women. They liked every artistic thing they did. Each piece was to them a little miracle. I became nervous of these women, and very much on my guard. Sometimes they liked to leave work in the cottage. This was more for my father than for me. However fierce he was with outsiders, he was gentle with Jo. He liked to give the impression that he was in her hands. He actually never was. This bit of acting pleased him: a little power play—letting the two women, suppliants in this matter of artwork, think that he was feebler than he was. The idea of Jo and Marian was that after a week or so the beauty of a piece would be overwhelming and my father would buy. You can’t blame them; this is what some London dealers do. An important craft fair was coming up. I heard about it weeks beforehand from Jo. It was to be on a Sunday, and on the morning of that Sunday a Volvo station wagon pulled into the cottage drive. A woman I didn’t know was driving. I took this to be Marian. Jo was sitting beside her. They had come to take away some of the artwork that they had left for my father to get used to. Jo got out first and, very much the woman who knew her way around, let herself into the cottage. She came out shortly afterward with my father, who, overdoing the dodderiness, was ineffectually helping to bring various awkwardly shaped pieces (big frames, big mounts) out to the porch. My room was at the other end of the cottage, near the entrance gateway, at the beginning of the small semicircular drive. So when Marian got out of the car to greet my father I saw her from the back. Her black, too loose elastic pants, part of a black outfit, had slipped far down. And that energetic getting out of the Volvo, using the steering wheel to lever herself out, had pulled them askew and even lower. She said to my father, “I’ve been admiring your lovely house. I’ve heard so much about it from Jo.” Such directness, such social grace wasn’t at all what I had been expecting. Nor was the big Volvo, handled with a matching grace as, sitting high, she eased it into the tight, awkward curve of our drive. For years afterward, I could recall that moment. She was tall, a further surprise, not plebeian or council-estate in figure but exercised and slender. The glimpse of her lower body, the coarse black material contrasting with the lovely skin, fixed the moment in my mind. With a quick right hand, she straightened the back of her pants, pulling them out and down a little more before pulling them up. I doubt whether she knew what she had done. But the moment was ever with me. When, later, we were together, it could bring about an immediate desire for her, or put life into a lagging performance. I watched them put their pieces in the station wagon and drive away. I was too nervous to call out to Jo. And so it happened that for a week I was obsessed by a woman whose face I hadn’t even seen. On Saturday, I asked Jo how the fair had gone. She said that it hadn’t gone at all. She and Marian had sat all day at their stall (the rent was twenty-five pounds) and nothing had happened. Toward the end of the afternoon, some men had appeared to be interested, but they were only trying to pick them up. I said, “I saw Marian last Sunday morning when she came here.” I had tried to speak as neutrally as possible. But the look on Jo’s face told me that I had given myself away. Women are sharp about sexual attraction, even when they themselves are not involved. All their senses are trained to detect the beginnings of interest and inclination, a man’s loss of neutrality. Jo’s bright eyes became shaded with roguishness and complicity. She herself was displaying a new character, as if to match what she had seen in me. I asked, “What does Marian do?” “She is a swimmer. She works at the baths.” The municipal baths in our market town. That explained the exercised body. I had never been to the municipal baths and I imagined myself in a biggish pool with barefoot Marian in her swimsuit doing her rounds, walking a foot or two above the level of my head. (Though I knew it wouldn’t be like that: she would more likely be in a synthetic shell suit of some sort, sitting in a chair beside the sun-bleached and water-stained plywood tea counter, drinking bad coffee or tea, and reading a magazine.) Jo, as if reading my thoughts, said, “She’s lovely, isn’t she?” Generous, as always, about her friend, but still with the new complicit look, as though she were ready for any adventure with me that might include her friend. I thought of the exercised and relaxed body stretched out in her bed, clean body on clean sheets, smelling of chlorine and water, and I was deeply stirred. Jo said, “She’s made a couple of mistakes. Like the rest of us.” Jo’s language was like that, filled with strange old-fashioned echoes: the mistakes were no doubt children by unsuitable men. She said, “She’s been living with someone for ages.” She began to tell me what this man did, but I stopped her. I didn’t want to know any more. I didn’t want to get a picture of him. It would have been unbearable. My pursuit of Marian was the most humiliating thing I had ever exposed myself to. And at the end, to add to my humiliation, I discovered that council-estate women of Marian’s age thought of sex in the most matter-of-fact way—in the crudest way, you might say, or the simplest, the most natural, almost as something that they had to go shopping for—and in the same spirit of sport with which they went shopping for cut-price groceries (on certain evenings, when the supermarkets marked down perishable items). Marian told me later that groups of young women in her area would form a party on Thursdays or Fridays or Saturdays and go out to the pubs and clubs, trawling for sex with men they fancied on sight. Fancied: that was the word. “I fancy him.” No woman wanted not to have a man she fancied. These occasions could turn rough. The fancied men were also matter-of-fact about sex, and a woman could easily be knocked about. If she objected too loudly, or with too many obscenities, she could be given a “beer shampoo”: a bottle of beer emptied over her head. It was all part of the sex game. Almost every woman who did this kind of weekend clubbing had at one time or another had a beer shampoo. At the end, there was sex for everyone, however fat, however plain. Marian was telling me one day about someone on her street, a young woman, who lived on crisps and chocolate bars and pizzas and burgers, and was immensely fat. This woman had three children, also very fat, by three different fathers. I thought that this was a critical story from Marian, the swimmer, about bad diet and fatness. But I was wrong. Most of the women in Marian’s area were fat. Fatness by itself wasn’t a story. This was a story about the fat woman’s sexual appetite and sexual success. The moral tone I’d thought I detected wasn’t there. Marian was speaking, in her gossipy way, only of the presumption and absurdity of the fat woman. She said, “It’s like a Chinese laundry in that house, with men. In and out fast.” That was Marian’s language style. Sharp. It went with everything else about her. To me, it all made a whole. Even if I’d had some or all of this knowledge about Marian’s background, I don’t think it would have helped me in my courtship, to use that inappropriate word. I couldn’t have adopted the attitude of the fancied men of the pubs. I wouldn’t have known how to knock a woman about or give her a beer shampoo. I could only be myself, and depend on such arts of seduction as I possessed. These arts hardly existed. My wife, Perdita, and a few other women like Perdita had, as the saying was, thrown themselves at me. They hadn’t done so for flagrant sexual purposes. They’d done it only for marriage. Sex had hardly entered into it. I was O.K., as a partner or a husband, and that was all. So I never had to seek women out or win them. They were simply there, and I discovered now that, in the winning of Marian, I had no talents of seduction at all. Men are never more foolish or absurd than when they “make a pass.” Women especially mock them, though these same women would be mortified if no pass was made at them. I felt this absurdity keenly, and I wouldn’t have been able to pull it off if Jo hadn’t helped me. She prepared the ground for me, so to speak, so that when Marian and I finally met, Marian knew that I was interested in her. We met in the lounge of the old coaching inn in the town. The idea, which was Jo’s, was that she and Marian should be having coffee or tea on a Saturday afternoon, and I, coming into the town from the cottage, should happen upon them. It was simplicity itself, as Jo said, but it was easier for the women than for me. I was more than embarrassed. I could hardly bear to look at Marian. Jo left. Marian stayed to have a lukewarm drink in the dark, low, almost empty bar. I presented my case. In fact, the legal analogy helped me to do so. Everything about her enchanted me, her narrowness above the waist, her voice, her accent, her language, her aloofness. Whenever I felt my courage failing, I thought of her coarse, black elasticated pants slipping low when she got out of the Volvo station wagon. I thought it was important not to let things drag on for another week. I would lose momentum, perhaps lose courage altogether, and she might change her mind. She agreed to stay for dinner; in fact, she seemed to think that that had already been agreed upon. Jo had done her work well. Better than I had done mine. I had made no arrangements. For a minute or so, I thought I might take her to the cottage, but I knew that that would be calamitous; my father, though decayed, had a strange canniness still. So dinner was only dinner. There was no working toward anything else afterward. You could say that Marian and I had a kind of courtship. We had the house wine; she loved that. We arranged to meet for lunch the next day. I felt that I could shower Jo with treasure for all she had done for me. I booked a room at the inn for the next day. I had an anxious night, and a desperate morning. I have searched myself to see whether I have ever spent such an anxious time, so full of yearning, so full of self-distrust, and I don’t think I have. I felt that everything depended on seducing this woman, taking her to bed. In other crises, one has an idea of what one is worth and what work one has done and where things might be going. But in this business of seduction I had no experience. It was the completest gamble. Everything depended on the other person. Later, when I got to know more about the ways of Marian and her friends, this anxiety of mine appeared extraordinarily foolish and pathetic. But, as I have said before, even if I had known about those ways it would not have helped. The long night ended. The lunch came. We went afterward to the booked room, with its strange dark and musty furniture. How terrible now to embrace a stranger, just like that. Marian seemed very slightly to repel me, and I was relieved. We undressed. I undressed as though I were at the doctor’s, being examined for a rash. Jacket on a chair; then trousers, underpants, and shirt, all very neatly. Marian’s armpits were dark with silky hair. I said, “So you don’t shave.” “Somebody asked me not to some time ago. Some people think it’s disgusting. They make strange faces when they see it.” “I love it.” She allowed me to stroke it, to feel its silkiness. It overexcited me, and worked with the other pictures I had of her. I came a little before I should. She was cool. For a long time, she remained on her left side, hip high, waist sunken, her right flank smooth and exercised and firm. Her left arm partly covered her small breasts. Her right arm was crooked above her head, revealing her underarm hair. On two or three fingers of the hand that covered her breasts she had rings: gifts, I thought, from previous worshippers, but I closed my mind to them now. She said, in her cool way, looking down at me, “Aren’t you going to bugger me?” I didn’t know what to say. She said, “I thought that was where you were going.” I still didn’t know what to say. She said, “Did you go to Oxford or Cambridge?” And, with a gesture of irritation, reached across the bed for her bag. Easily, as though she knew where it was, she took out a tube of lip salve. I hesitated. She passed the lip salve to me, saying, “I am not doing this for you. You do it.” I hadn’t thought it possible for a naked, exposed woman to be so imperious. She commanded. I obeyed. How well I did I didn’t know. She didn’t tell me. When we were dressed again, she more or less fully, I only partially, there was a ring at the door. I remembered, too late, that in my agitation I had not put on the “Occupied” light. She seemed to grow insane. She said, “You, go to the bathroom.” She called out to the person outside to wait, and then she began pelting all my clothes into the bathroom—jacket, shoes, everything she could see—as though she wished no sign of me to remain in the room. It was only a chambermaid, doing some kind of checking. I was standing in the cramped bathroom like a man in a farce. Yet afterward I was more concerned with working out Marian’s behavior. Perhaps it was some shred of shame or morality, something beyond her control. Perhaps it was because I was not one of the people who gave the women of the estates a beer shampoo. So new rules, new manners applied, and perhaps even new feelings might be brought into play. She never explained, and when I said that I hoped we could meet the following weekend when I came down from London she said yes, and then added, in her half-and-half, contrary way, ‘‘Let’s see.” I bought her a pretty piece of jewelry, something with opals. It cost a few hundred pounds. I wanted something substantial because I knew that she would show it to her friends, and one of them, Jo perhaps, would tell her to take it to Trethowans, the local jewellers, to have it valued. At the same time, I wanted to be fair to myself: opals are not among the more expensive stones. She was pleased when I gave it to her that Friday evening. She held it in her hand and considered the blue flash and sparkle, the unending miniature storm in the stone, and though her own eyes were glinting, she said, “They say that opals are unlucky.” I had booked a room in the hotel for the weekend. The staff were Spanish and Portuguese and Colombian. Colombians, through some kind of network, had penetrated to our market town, meeting some local need beyond that of simple labor. They were Mediterranean in spirit, infinitely tolerant, and Marian and I were treated as old friends by them and the others. This did away with whatever awkwardness we might have felt about our new arrangement. In fact, it was wonderful in the hotel. It was like being on a foreign holiday, being an exotic, in one’s own place. Living the life of bar and dining room and bedroom, and foreign languages, just a few miles from my father’s cottage and overgrown garden, which had for so long been for me a place of gloom, of tarnished ceilings and pictures blurred behind grimy glass, a place of a life lived out and now without possibility. I had been anxious all week about meeting Marian again. Almost as anxious as I’d been about our first meeting. I got to the hotel early. And I sat in the low-ceilinged lounge (“a wealth of exposed beams,” as the hotel brochure promised), and looked across the old market square to where, hidden around a corner, both the taxi rank and the bus station were. She was splendid when she appeared. That was the word that came to me. She was in pale primrose trousers, with the waist high, so that her legs seemed very long. The flare on the trousers made them overwhelming. Her walk was brisk and athletic. I doubted that I had the capacity to deal with this splendor. But then it came to me, as I watched her stride toward the hotel, that the trousers were new, specially bought for this occasion. There was something like an ironing mark or a fold mark across the middle. It would have come from the shop: a garment folded and wrapped in tissue and placed in a box or a bag. I was moved by this evidence of her care and preparation. It gave me a little comfort. At the same time, it made me feel unworthy, wondering about the challenges ahead. So I was perhaps in a greater state of nerves than I had been at the beginning. There is no tragedy like that of the bedroom: I believe Tolstoy once said that to a friend. No one knows what he meant. The recurring shameful need? Failure? Poor performance? Rejection? Silent condemnation? It was very much like that with me later that evening. I thought I had infected Marian with my feeling of the luxuriousness of the hotel in the market square, the strange feeling it gave, with all the foreign staff, of being somewhere abroad. The wine at dinner had strengthened that feeling, I thought. But her dark, distant mood returned at bedtime. It might have been another person who had accepted the opal piece and been pleased by it. She undressed and offered herself, and then later exposed herself as before: the sunken waist, the lovely high hip, the dark openness, showing me the hair in her armpits. This time, I was better prepared to do what she clearly wanted me to do. But I never knew whether I was pleasing her. I thought that I must be, but she never let on. Perhaps she was acting, perhaps it was her style; perhaps it was something she had learned from one of her too boastful friends; or something that had been forced on her by her rough childhood on the estate, a little remnant of natural modesty, a way of dealing with that life. And that—since the mind can deal with many things at the same time—was how I reasoned with myself while I was quite shaken with desire, hardly believing in what was being offered me, wishing at the same time to seize it all. Later, when I had grown up into this fearful undermining of the senses, I would understand that in these early days I had not done very well. It would have destroyed me if I had known. But at the time, in the bedroom of the hotel, I didn’t know. Midway through the evening, she said, “I see you’ve come with your belt. Do you want to beat me?” I had some idea what she meant. But it was too far away from me. I said nothing. She said, “Use the belt. Don’t use anything else.” When we had done with that she said, “Is my bottom black and blue?” It wasn’t. Many weeks later, that would be true, but not then. She said, “Did it give you a nice big, fat come?” It hadn’t. But I didn’t say. She said, “I had your number.” And she swung her strong legs off the bed. So, after all that had occurred between us, she kept her distance. I thought that that was the whole point of her attitude during this tragedy of the bedroom, and I admired her for it. I willingly granted her that distance. If I hadn’t, it would have been just another relationship, and that simply wasn’t possible. Apart from the bedroom, and that darkening of her mood, there was almost nothing between us. We had very little to talk about. Something she had read, some saucy book or manual, or some conversation with a woman friend, had given her her own idea of my special need, my “number,” as she said. She was only a quarter right. I had always thought of myself as a man of low sexual energy. This idea had become part of my character. It simplified things for me. The idea of having sex with a woman, of exposing myself to that kind of intimacy, was distasteful to me. Some people insist that if you’re not one thing you’re the other. They believe that I’m interested in men. The opposite is true. The fact is that all sexual intimacy is distasteful to me. I’ve always considered my low sexual energy as a kind of freedom. I am sure that there have been many people like me. Ruskin, Henry James. They are strange examples, but they’re the ones that come immediately to mind. We should be allowed to have our freedom. I was in my forties when I first saw a modern magazine with sexual photographs. I was shocked and frightened. Those magazines had been in the newsagents’ shops for years, all more or less with the same covers, and I had not thought of looking at them. This is absolutely true. Some time later, I saw a variety of more specialized pornographic magazines. They made me ashamed. They made me feel that we could all be trained in these ghastly extensions of sexual feeling. Only a few basic sexual acts occur spontaneously. Everything else has to be taught. Flesh is flesh. We can all be made to learn. Without training, we would know nothing of certain practices. I preferred not to be trained. I believe that Marian saw all of this ignorance in me. She wished to draw me out, of course, within the limits of her own knowledge, within the limits of what she herself had been trained to do, and to some extent she succeeded. I have said that there was nothing between Marian and me outside the bedroom. But I wonder about that. Having got to know Marian, I wished to know no other woman in that special way, and I wonder whether that cannot be described as a kind of love: the sexual preference for one person above all others. I fell into a new pattern of living. Weekdays in London, weekends in the country with Marian. In time I lost my anxiety with her, though there was always that darkness and distance in her bedroom mood. The more I got to know her, the more I pushed myself sexually with her. I never wanted during those weekends to waste her, so to speak; I never wanted to be idle with her. By Sunday morning, I was always close to enervation. I longed then to be free of her, to be on the road back to London. And, paradoxically, Sunday evenings were the best time of the week for me, a time of delicious rest and solitude and reflection, when sexual exhaustion and relief turned slowly to a general feeling of optimism, and I became ready for the week ahead. By Thursday, I would be ground down again, my head once more full of pictures of Marian; and I would be more than eager on Friday afternoon to get back to her. It was in its way a perfect relationship, with just enough separation to keep desire going. We changed hotels a few times, though staying in the general area: I wished always, while my father lived, to be within reach of the cottage. In the beginning, this changing of hotels was to prevent Marian from being recognized by her friends or relations. Later, it was mainly for the novelty: new rooms, new staff, new lounge and bar, new dining room. We thought for a time of buying a flat or a house in an outlying small town, and the idea excited us for some months, but as we began to go into the details the thought of housekeeping grew more and more oppressive to both of us. A housekeeping weekend would not have been at all what I wanted. It would have brought out the family side of Marian, which I had closed my mind to. That family side was always there in the background; sometimes I could feel family problems pressing on Marian, but I wished to know nothing of them. To know more, to see Marian as a day-to-day council-estate housewife, would have done away with the enchantment I found in her rough ways and her deformed accent, things that went so strangely with her clean-smelling swimmer’s body. But the idea of property had excited her, and in the end, as a kind of compensation, I bought her council-estate house for her. The law had recently been changed to enable council-estate tenants to buy their homes. I could put no price on my weekends with Marian, and the price the council put on her house was more than reasonable. Just as people—like my father, say—can gradually get used to a medical condition that if presented to them all at once would have been like an overturning of their world, as calamitous as war or invasion, with every familiar routine undermined and some things destroyed, so I grew into my new social condition: living intensely at weekends with a woman with whom I could have no true conversation, whom I had no wish to “take out” or to present to anyone. And then I made a literary discovery. I read selections from the journals of a Victorian gentleman called A. J. Munby, and found a fellow. Munby was born in 1828 and died in 1910. This makes him the exact contemporary of Tolstoy. He was a highly educated man, a fine and vivid writer in the effortless Victorian way, and he was deep in the intellectual and artistic life of his time. He knew many of the great names. Some, like Ruskin and William Morris, he knew by sight or better. When he was still a very young man, he could greet Dickens in the street and then, in a few words in his journal, he could pin down the physical appearance of the fifty-year-old author: a dandy, a bit of an actor, vain of his slender figure, his hat tilted on his head. But Munby—like Ruskin and like Dickens—had a sexual secret. He was passionately interested in working women. He liked women who literally got their hands dirty. He liked seeing servant women in their dirt, as he said, with their hands and faces black with soot and grime. And it is astonishing to us today how many dirty jobs of the time, cleaning fireplaces and so on, were done by women without tools, with only bare and uncovered hands. When these hands were washed, they showed rough and thick and red. Ladies’ hands were white and small. Munby’s preference, away from drawing rooms, was for those red hands which, unless covered by the elbow-length gloves of fashion, could always give a working woman away. Munby talked to any number of these women in the street. He sketched them. He had photographs taken of them. He was an early amateur of photography. He posed women colliery workers in their coarse, heavily patched trousers, legs crossed sometimes, leaning on their man-size shovels, looking hard and bemused at the photographer, one or two finding enough vanity for a smile. There is nothing pornographic in these photographs and drawings, though for Munby the subject would doubtless have had some erotic charge. For much of his life he had a secret liaison with a servant woman. She was tall and robust, a head above most people in the street. Munby liked women of size and strength. He liked the idea of this woman friend of his continuing to work as a servant in other houses; and though she sometimes complained about the inconsiderateness of her employers, he was not too eager to emancipate her. She understood his fetish and didn’t mind: before meeting Munby, she had longed in a dreamy way to have a gentleman as a lover or a husband. Sometimes, though rarely in the beginning, they lived together in the same house. Then, when people called, the woman had to get up from her drawing-room chair and pretend to be the maid. In the journal, there is no hint of sex in the relationship, though this might have been only Victorian reticence. For a man of Munby’s tastes, Victorian London would have been full of excitement. What pleasure, for instance, in a Bloomsbury Square, to see at six in the evening every basement window lit up, each with its special treasure displayed as if on a stage: a servant woman sitting on a chair, waiting to be called. And just as in Munby’s journal there is a sense of an encircling London servant life, full of pain and pleasure for him, so it was for me, with Marian; though I closed my mind to what she did when she wasn’t with me, there came fragments, developing after a time into a full picture, of a frightening and brutal council-estate life I had never really known. During the week, Marian lived in her council house with the “mistakes” Jo had mentioned to me right at the beginning. The mistakes were two: two children by different men. I gathered early on that the first of those men was a “drifter.” It was one of Marian’s words; she made it sound almost technical, almost an occupation that might be entered on Social Security or other government forms. Occupation: Drifter. The drifter was dark-haired. The hair was important: Marian mentioned it more than once, as if it explained everything. Marian herself had been one of four mistakes that her mother had made with three different men. After these four mistakes, Marian’s mother, still only in her twenties, had come upon a man she really fancied. It was what she had been waiting for all her life. Love: it was her destiny. She didn’t hesitate. She left the four mistakes and went off with the man to another house on the council estate. There was some trouble with the authorities then, because Marian’s mother wanted to go on claiming the benefits that the four mistakes had brought her. Somehow that matter was smoothed over, and Marian’s mother lived with her man until he got tired of her and ran off with somebody else. It was the way of life down there. This kind of thing happens elsewhere as well, but what is interesting to me is that at no stage was Marian’s mother required by anyone in authority to live with the material or financial consequences of her decisions. There was always a council house available, and always a benefit of some sort. You might say that Marian’s mother’s every action brought an official reward. The people who paid were the children, the mistakes. And I suppose it can be said that they weren’t being punished in any special way: they were only being trained for council-estate life, the way that Marian’s poor mother had been trained in her childhood, by other people and other events. Marian and the other mistakes were taken into “care.” A terrible technical word, and this was the most terrible part of Marian’s childhood. It was a story of beatings and sexual abuse and repeated hopeless running away. Somehow the child endured and went through the government mill. She went to various correctional schools. At one of them, she learned to swim. It became the greatest thing in her life. And all this while there were days when Marian saw her mother driving by, living out her other life. When that life came to an end, her mother reappeared, and there was then something like a family life again, in another council house. As part of that life Marian and the others were sometimes taken by their mother on shoplifting excursions to supermarkets and local stores. They did very well. Sometimes they were caught, but then Marian and the other mistakes did what they had been told to do: they screamed the store down, and they were always let go. In time, these excursions stopped. Everyone Marian knew on the estate had a life that was a version of her own. Learning about this early life of Marian’s, I began to understand her withdrawn bedroom mood: the dead eyes, the shuttered mind. And then I wished that I didn’t know what I had come to know. I associated it with an awful and pathetic episode I came upon in Munby. A little paragraph, which I wished I hadn’t read. Munby, one day, either in a private house to which he had been admitted or in a hotel, entered a room and saw a chambermaid standing with her back to him. He spoke to her and she turned. She was young and had a sweet face, with manners to match. She was holding a chamber pot with one hand and stirring the contents with her other uncovered hand: suggesting that there were solids in the chamber pot. Something of this sorrow and disgust came to me when I thought of Marian’s past. It came upon me at our most intimate moments. I knew the council estate where the bad drama of her childhood had been played out. To her, at the time, that drama would have seemed unending. I had passed many times the very ordinary place where she had been taken into care and from which she had tried to run away. It was as though, for her, but not for me, who drove by unseeing, unknowing, unthinking, existing almost in a separate age, an exact moral parallel of the Dickens world still existed. That parallel was concealed from the rest of us by the bright paint of the council houses, the parked motorcars, and our too easy ideas of social change. Once, very slowly, over the period of a year or two, the council houses were refurbished. I had noticed it only with a quarter of my mind, wondering, with a little anxiety about builders, about the work that had to be done on my house in St. John’s Wood. One Friday evening, a taxi-driver from the train-station rank said to me as we drove by, “You can change the houses. You can’t change the people.” What he said was witty, but I was sure he had got it from somebody else. He was a council-estate man. He had told me so, and I knew that, in his semi-criminal way, he was speaking to me as to an outsider, telling me what he thought I wanted to hear. These things have to end, I suppose. But through a foolish remnant of social vanity I hastened the end of my affair with Marian. It happened like this. Jo decided that she wanted to have a proper wedding with the cook she had been living with for some years, and by whom she had already had a profitable mistake or two. She wanted the works: church, decorated big car, white ribbons running from roof to radiator, top hat and morning coat, shiny white wedding dress, bouquet, photographer, reception at the local pub where they do these council-estate receptions. The works. And she wanted me to come. She had looked after my father and his house, and it was this relationship, rather than her friendship with Marian, that she claimed as the stronger bond between us. It could be said that in the pettiest way she was a family retainer. It pleased her to make the point, and out of a most foolish kind of vanity and with every kind of misgiving—no one knows better than I that most class ideas are now out of period—I went. It was as ghastly a parody as could be expected: Jo’s brutish consort in top hat and all the rest, Jo’s face glistening with makeup, eyelashes twinkling with glitter-dust. And yet the woman below all of that was trembling with real emotion. I kept to myself, pretended not to see Marian and, more particularly, not to see who was with her. It was part of the deal with Marian and Jo. I got away as soon as I could, before the speeches, and the full merriment of the reception. When I got to the car, some distance away, I found it dreadfully scratched up. On the front seats, in white paint or some sticky white pigment from a thick marker, there was, in a careful childish hand: Piss off and stop scrooing my mother, and Piss off or else. It was a bad moment. That childish hand: I thought of the maid with the chamber pot in Munby. I learned later from Marian that the child’s father had been watching for me. Jo had told some people that I was coming to the wedding, never dreaming of the consequences. The white paint that the child had used had a special, clinging quality. It was almost impossible to wipe away; it might have been devised for graffiti artists who wished to protect their work against smoke and weather and erasure. It filled every minute depression in the imitation leather of the car seats; on the smoother surface, even after it had been scrubbed off, it left a clear trace, like the drag of a snail, glinting when the light fell on it at a certain angle. The persecution that began that Saturday grew weekend by weekend. I was known; my car was known. I was followed. I was telephoned, and when I answered I was abused by the child. The feebleness of the man in the background, the father of the child, hiding behind the child, became more and more sinister to me. I decided in the end to put a stop to our country weekends and to buy a flat for Marian in London. The idea delighted her, delighted her so much that the persecution could have been part of a plan: she had always wanted to live in London, to be near the shops instead of having to travel up to them. But London is an enormous city. I had no idea where I might buy a modest but suitable flat. That was when I opened myself to one of the younger partners in my firm. I told him of my need, and told him a little more than I should have. He lived in west London, in one of the smart Norman Shaw or Arts and Crafts houses near Turnham Green. He was friendly, even conspiratorial. He did not look down on me because of my relationship with Marian. He told me that Turnham Green was the place to look. Most of the Victorian or Edwardian houses in that area were being turned into flats; they were a quarter or a third the price of flats nearer the center. And Turnham Green—a good journey south and west of St. John’s Wood—was where I bought. Marian relished the name; she spoke it again and again, as though it were a magical name in a fairy tale. And when she learned that there was an Underground railway line that would take her from Turnham Green straight to Piccadilly Circus in twenty or twenty-five minutes it was almost more than she could bear. We decided to forget the council house in the country, to leave it to Marian’s mistakes and the father of her second child. Because Marian, like her mother before her, wished now, with this vision of London before her, to be free of her mistakes. As anyone could have foreseen, that move to London was calamitous for me and for her. Now that she was, so to speak, always there, there was no longer that weekend intensity, and without that intensity she became banal. Even sexually, which I would never have thought possible. The whole pattern of my life had been broken. It was a failure of imagination on my part. So many calamities, big and small, are: the failure or inability to work out the day-to-day consequences, over a period, of our actions. A few years ago, I got to know a writer. He worked all week at the British Museum reading room and did his writing at the weekend. All week, sitting high in the reading room, he had a whole world under his direct gaze; all week his imagination was fed. The weekend fiction he did was immensely successful. People would go to the reading room just to have a glimpse of the famous man at his ordinary weekday duties: beaky-faced, making small, abrupt, nervous movements. In some such way, two centuries before, the ragged poor would go to the French royal palaces to see the king dine or get ready for bed. And, indeed, a little like the king, the writer took his position too much for granted—the celebrity, the talent. He began to feel cramped by his job in the British Museum. He gave it up and retired to the country and set himself up as a full-time writer. His writing changed. He no longer had a world under his gaze. His imagination became starved. His writing became overblown. The great books, which would have kept the good early books alive, never came. He died penniless. His books have vanished. I could see this writer’s predicament very clearly. But I couldn’t see my own. And the same could be said of Marian. She had never seen the possibility of solitude in London. She had never seen that there was only so much of a day that could be spent looking at the shops. She had never imagined that Turnham Green, of the beautiful, verdant name, could become a prison. She began to long for what she had left behind. She became irritable. I was still always glad to get away from her, but now there was no intensity, no sexual fatigue. Our time together became pointless. We could see each other very clearly, and we didn’t like what we saw. So it wouldn’t have mattered if I did as she endlessly asked, and spent more time with her; that really wasn’t what she wanted. She wanted to go back home. She wanted her old friends. She was like those people who retire to a place where they have holidayed, and in this holiday place become frantic with boredom and solitude. It would have been better if, like Marian’s mother or like many of Marian’s friends, I had made a clean break. But I didn’t have the courage or the brutality. It wasn’t in my nature or upbringing. I hung on, attempting reconciliations that were empty, and in the process killing every last possibility of renewed passion, since the sexual delirium that had altered the other person for me simply wasn’t there now, and I saw the other person plain. It was in this mood that I introduced Marian to the friend and legal colleague who lived in Turnham Green. I was hoping to be rid of her, and that was how it worked out. He dangled beautiful new names and old romantic ideas before her: Paris, the South of France. And—out of that social greed which I had known and loved for so long—she ran to him. So I was free of her, but at the same time I knew the most painful kind of jealousy. I did the work I had to do, but my head was full of sexual pictures from the time of my passion, the passion which was now beyond me. I imagined her words. I never thought it was possible to suffer so much. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Secret Goldfish	He had a weird growth along his dorsal fin, and that gape-mouth grimace you see in older fish. Way too big for his tank, too, having outgrown the standard goldfish age limit. Which is what? About one month? He was six years old—outlandishly old for a fish. One afternoon, Teddy, as he was called then, now just Ted, took notice of the condition of Fish’s tank: a wedge of sunlight plunged through the window of his bedroom and struck the water’s surface, disappearing. The water was so clotted it had become a solid mass, a putty within which Fish was presumably swimming, or dead. Most likely dead. Where’s Fish? Where’s Fish? Teddy yelled to his mom. She came into his room, caught sight of the tank, and gave a small yelp. Once again, a fish had been neglected. Everyone knows the story. The kids beg and plead: Please, please get us a fish (or a dog), we’ll feed it, we will, honest, we’ll take care of it and you won’t have to do a single thing. We’ll clean the tank walls with the brush and make sure the filter charcoal is replaced regularly and refill the water when it evaporates. Please, please, we can handle it, we’re old enough now, we are, it’ll be so much fun, it will, so much fun. But in the end they don’t. They dump too much food in no matter how often they’re told to be careful, to use just a pinch, and even after they’ve read Biblical-sounding fables about the fish who ate too much and grew too large for its bowl, shattering the sides, they watch gleefully while he consumes like mad, unable to stop. It’s fun to watch him eat, to witness the physical manifestation of a fact: the level of Fish’s hunger is permanently set to high. In the metaphysics of the fish universe, gluttony is not a sin. The delicate wafers of food fall lightly onto the water, linger on the surface tension, and are broken apart on infinitely eager lips. She overfeeds, too (on the days when she’s pretty sure the kids haven’t fed him). Her shaking mechanics are sloppy. The light flakes become moist, collude, collect their inertia, and all too often fall out of the can in a large clump. Really, she hasn’t neglected the poor fish. “Neglect” seems a word too heavy with submerged intent. Something was bound to slip to the side amid the chaos of the domestic arena. But Fish has sustained himself in terrible conditions. He is the king of all goldfish survivors. Her own childhood goldfish—named Fred—ended his days in Grayling Pond, a hole near her house in northern Michigan, dug out by the state D.N.R. on a pond-production grant. (Why the Great Lakes state needed more ponds is anyone’s guess.) Garnished with a wide band of lily pads, the water a pale yellow, speckled with skeeter-bug ripples, the pond was close to becoming a marsh. Hope you survive, Fred, her father had said as he slopped the fish out of the pail and into the pond. She did not forget the sight of her beloved fish as he slipped from the lip of the bucket and rode the glassine tube of water into the pond. The rest of the summer she imagined his orange form—brilliantly bright and fluorescent against the glimmer of water—in a kind of slow-motion replay. Dumbest animals on earth, she remembered her father adding. Nothing dumber than a carp. Except maybe a catfish, or your goddam mother. Not long after that afternoon at Grayling Pond, her father left the house in a fit of rage. Gone for good, her mother said. Thank Christ. Then, a few months later, he was killed in a freak accident, crushed between hunks of ice and the hull of a container ship in Duluth. Superior’s slush ice was temperamental that winter, chewing up the coastline, damaging bulkheads. Her father had signed on as one of the men who went down with poles and gave furtive pokes and prods, in the tradition of those Michigan rivermen who had once dislodged logjams with their peaveys and pike poles, standing atop the timber in their spiked boots, sparring with magnificent forces. Accounts varied, but the basic story was that the ice shifted, some kind of crevasse formed, and he slipped in. Then the lake gave a heave and his legs were crushed, clamped in the jaw of God’s stupid justice. As she liked to imagine it, he had just enough time to piece together a little prayer asking for forgiveness for being a failure of a father (“Dear Heavenly Father, forgive me for my huge failings as a father to my dear daughter and even more for my gaping failure as a husband to my wife”) and for dumping Fred (“and for getting rid of that fish my daughter loved more than me”), and then to watch as the pale winter sun slipped quickly away while the other men urged him to remain calm and told him that he’d be fine and they’d have him out in a minute or so, while knowing for certain that they wouldn’t. Long after her father was gone, she imagined Fred lurking in the lower reaches of Grayling Pond, in the coolest pockets, trying to conserve his energy. Sometimes, when she was cleaning upstairs and dusting Teddy’s room, she would pause in the deep, warm, silent heart of a suburban afternoon and watch Fish as he dangled asleep, wide-eyed, unmoving, just fluffing his fins softly on occasion. One time she even tried it herself, standing still, suspended in the dense fluid of an unending array of demanding tasks—cleaning, cooking, washing, grocery shopping, snack-getting—while outside the birds chirped and the traffic hissed past on the parkway. The marriage had fallen apart abruptly. Her husband—who worked in the city as a corporate banker and left the house each morning at dawn with the Times, still wrapped in its bright-blue delivery bag, tucked beneath his arm—had betrayed his vows. One evening, he’d arrived home from work with what seemed to be a new face: his teeth were abnormally white. He’d had them bleached in the city. (In retrospect, she saw that his bright teeth were the first hint of his infidelity.) He had found a dentist on Park Avenue. Soon he was coming home late on some nights and not at all on others, under the vague pretense of work obligations. In Japan, he explained, people sleep overnight in town as a sign of their dedication to business; they rent cubicles just wide enough for a body, like coffins, he said, and for days when he did not return she thought of those small compartments and she chose to believe him. (Of course I know about the Japanese, she had said, emphatically.) Then one night she found him in the bathroom with a bar of soap, rubbing it gently against his wedding ring. It’s too tight, he said. I’m just trying to loosen it. When others were perplexed by the fact that she had not deduced his infidelity, picked up on the clues, during those fall months, she felt compelled (though she never did) to describe the marriage in all of its long complexity—fifteen years—starting with the honeymoon in Spain: the parador in Chinchón, outside Madrid, that had once been a monastery, standing naked with him at the balcony door in the dusky night air listening to the sounds of the village and the splash of the pool. She had given up her career for the relationship, for the family. She had given up plenty in order to stay home for Teddy’s and Annie’s formative years, to make sure those brain synapses formed correctly, to be assured that the right connections were fused. (Because studies had made it clear that a kid’s success depends on the first few years. It was important to develop the fine motor skills, to have the appropriate hand play, not to mention critical reasoning skills, before the age of four!) So, yes, she guessed the whole decision to give herself over to the domestic job had been an act of free will, but now it felt as though the act itself had been carried out in the conditions of betrayal that would eventually unfold before her. Fish had come into the family fold in a plastic Baggie of water, bulging dangerously, knotted at the top, with a mate, Sammy, who would end up a floater two days later. Pet Universe had given free goldfish to all the kids on a preschool field trip. In less than a year, Fish had grown too big for his starter bowl and begun to tighten his spiralled laps, restricted in his movements by his gathering bulk and the glass walls of the bowl. Then he graduated to a classic five-gallon bowl, where, in the course of the next few years, he grew, until one afternoon, still deep in what seemed to be a stable domestic situation, with the kids off at school, she went out to Pet Universe and found a large tank and some water-prep drops and a filter unit, one that sat on the rim and produced a sleek, fountainlike curl of water, and some turquoise gravel and a small figurine to keep the fish company: a cartoonish pirate galleon—a combination of Mark Twain riverboat and man-of-war—with an exaggerated bow and an orange plastic paddle wheel that spun around in the tank’s currents until it gobbed up and stuck. The figurine, which was meant to please the eyes of children, had that confused mix of design that put commercial viability ahead of the truth. Teddy and Annie hated it. Ultimately, the figure served one purpose. It rearranged the conceptual space of the tank and gave the illusion that Fish now had something to do, something to work around, during his languorous afternoon laps, and she found herself going in to watch him, giving deep philosophical consideration to his actions: Did Fish remember that he had passed that way before? Was he aware of his eternal hell, caught in the tank’s glass grip? Or did he feel wondrously free, swimming—for all he knew—in Lake Superior, an abundant, wide field of water, with some glass obstructions here and there? Was he basically free of wants, needs, and everything else? Did he wonder at the food miraculously appearing atop the surface tension, food to be approached with parted lips? One evening, after observing Fish, when she was at the sink looking out the window at the yard, she saw her husband there, along the south side, holding his phone to his ear and lifting his free hand up and down from his waist in a slight flapping gesture that she knew indicated that he was emotionally agitated. Shortly after that, the tank began to murk up. Through the dim months of January and February, the filter clotted, the flow stopped, and stringy green silk grew on the lip of the waterfall. The murk thickened. In the center of the darkness, Fish swam in random patterns and became a sad, hopeless entity curled into his plight. He was no longer fooled by his short-term memory into thinking that he was eternally free. Nor was he bored by the repetitive nature of his laps, going around the stupid ship figurine, sinking down into the gravel, picking—typical bottom-feeder—for scraps. Instead, he was lost in the eternal roar of an isotropic universe, flinging himself wildly within the expanding big bang of tank murk. On occasion, he found his way to the light and rubbed his eye against the glass, peering out in a judgmental way. But no one was there to see him. No one seemed available to witness these outward glances. Until the day when Teddy, now just Ted, noticed and said, Mom, Mom, the tank, and she went and cleaned it, but only after she had knocked her knuckle a few times on the glass and seen that he was alive, consumed in the dark but moving and seemingly healthy. Then she felt awe at the fact that life was sustainable even under the most abhorrent conditions. She felt a fleeting connection between this awe and the possibility that God exists. But then she reminded herself that it was only Fish. Just frickin’ Fish, she thought. Here I am so weepy and sad, trying to make sense of my horrible situation, that something like this will give me hope. Of course, she was probably also thinking back to that afternoon, watching her father sluice Fred down into the warm waters of the shallow pond in Michigan. Her memory of it was profoundly clear. The vision of the fish itself—pristine and orange—travelling through the water as it spilled from the bucket was exact and perfect. She set to work scooping out the water with an old Tupperware bowl, replacing it in increments so the chlorine would evaporate, driving to Pet Universe to get another cotton filter, some water-clarifying drops, and a pound sack of activated charcoal nuggets. She disassembled the pump mechanism—a small magnet attached to a ring of plastic that hovered, embraced by a larger magnet. Somehow the larger magnet coöperated with the magnet on the plastic device and used physical laws of some sort to suck the water up and through the filter, where it cascaded over the wide lip and twisted as it approached the surface. It seemed to her as her fingers cleaned the device that it was not only a thing of great simplicity and beauty but also something much deeper, a tool meant to sustain Fish’s life and, in turn, his place in the family. The afternoon was clear, blue-skied, wintry bright—and out the kitchen window she saw the uncut lawn, dark straw brown, matted down in van Gogh swirls, frosted with cold. Past the lawn, the woods, through which she could see the cars moving on the parkway, stood stark and brittle in the direct implications of the winter light. It was a fine scene, embarrassingly suburban, but certainly fine. Back upstairs, she saw Fish swimming jauntily in his new conditions and she was pretty sure that he was delighted, moving with swift strokes from one end of the tank to the other, skirting the figurine professionally, wagging his back fin—what was that called? was it the caudal fin?—fashionably, like a cabaret dancer working her fan. A beautiful tail, unfurling in a windswept motion in the clearing water. When she leaned down for a closer look, it became apparent that the fin was much, much larger than it seemed when it was in action and twining in on itself. When Fish paused, it swayed open beautifully—a fine, healthy, wide carp tail. Along his sides, he had the usual scars of an abused fish, a wound or two, a missing scale, a new, smaller growth of some kind down near his anal fin. But otherwise he seemed big, brutally healthy, still blinking off the shock of the sudden glare. Then the tank fell back into its murk, got worse, stank up, and became, well, completely, utterly, fantastically murky. Here one might note tangentially: if, as Aristotle claims, poetry is something of graver import than history—partly because of the naturalness of its statements—then Fish was more important than any domestic history, because Fish was poetic, in that he had succumbed to the darkness that had formed around him, and yet he was unwilling to die—or, rather, he did not die. He kept himself alive. He kept at it. Somehow he gathered enough oxygen from the water—perhaps by staying directly under the trickle that made its way over the lip of the filter. Of course, by nature he was a bottom-feeder, a mudfish, accustomed to slime and algae and to an environment that, for other fish, would be insufferable. No trout could sustain itself in these conditions. Not even close. A good brookie would’ve gone belly up long ago. A brookie would want cool pockets of a fast-moving stream, sweet riffles, bubbling swirls, to live a good life. But Fish stood in his cave of slime, graver than the history of the household into which his glass enclave had been placed: Dad packing his suitcases, folding and refolding his trousers and taking his ties off the electric tie rack and carefully folding them inside sheets of tissue, and then taking his shoes and putting each pair, highly glossed oxfords (he was one of the few to make regular use of the shoeshine stand at Grand Central), into cotton drawstring sacks, and then emptying his top dresser drawer, taking his cufflinks, his old wallets, and a few other items. All of this stuff, the history of the house, the legal papers signed and sealed and the attendant separation agreement and, of course, the divorce that left her the house—all this historical material was transpiring outside the gist of Fish. He could chart his course and touch each corner of the tank and still not know shit. But he understood something. That much was clear. The world is a mucky mess. It gets clotted up, submerged in its own gunk. End of story. He brushed softly against the beard of algae that hung from the filter device, worked his way over to the figurine, leaned his flank against her side, and felt the shift of temperature as night fell—Teddy liked to sleep with the window cracked a bit—and the oxygen content increased slightly as the water cooled. During the day, the sun cranked through the window, the tank grew warm, and he didn’t move at all, unless someone came into the room and knocked on the tank or the floor, and then he jerked forward slightly before quickly settling down. A few times the downstairs door slammed hard enough to jolt him awake. Or there was a smashing sound from the kitchen. Or voices. “What in the world should we do?” “I would most certainly like this to be amicable, for the sake of the kids.” Or a shoe striking the wall in the adjacent master bedroom. At times he felt a kinship with the figurine, as if another carp were there alongside him, waiting, hovering. Other times he felt a slight kinship with the sides of the tank, which touched his gill flaps when he went in search of light. God, if only he knew that he, Fish, was at the very center of the domestic arena, holding court with his own desire to live. He might have died happily right there! But he was not a symbolic fish. He seemed to have no desire to stand as the tragic hero in this drama. Sent out, told to stay out, the kids were playing together down in the yard so that, inside, the two central figures, Dad and Mom, might have one final talk. The kids were standing by the playhouse—which itself was falling to decrepitude, dark-gray smears of mildew growing on its fake logs—pretending to be a mom and a dad themselves, although they were a bit too old and self-conscious for playacting. Perhaps they were old enough to know that they were faking it on two levels, regressing to a secondary level of playacting they’d pretty much rejected but playing Mom and Dad anyway, Teddy saying, I’m gonna call my lawyer if you don’t settle with me, and Annie responding, in her high sweet voice, I knew you’d lawyer up on me, I just knew it, and then both kids giggling in that secretive, all-knowing way they have. Overhead, the tree branches were fuzzed with the first buds of spring, but it was still a bit cold, and words hovered in vapor from their mouths and darkness was falling fast over the trees, and beyond the trees the commuter traffic hissed unnoticed. If you were heading south on the Merritt Parkway on the afternoon of April 3rd, and you happened to look to your right through the trees after Exit 35, you might’ve seen them, back beyond the old stone piles, the farm fences that no longer held significance except maybe as a reminder of the Robert Frost poem about good fences and good neighbors and all of that: two kids leaning against an old playhouse while the house behind them appeared cozy, warm, and, clearly, expensive. A fleeting tableau without much meaning to the commuting folk aside from the formulaic economics of the matter: near the parkway = reduced value, but an expensive area + buffer of stone walls + old trees + trendiness of area = more value. There is something romantic and heartening about seeing those homes through the trees from the vantage of the parkway—those safe, confided Connecticut lives. Inside the house, the secret goldfish is going about his deeply moving predicament, holding his life close to the gills, subdued by the dark but unwilling to relinquish his cellular activities, the Krebs cycle still spinning its carbohydrate breakdown. The secret goldfish draws close to the center of the cosmos. In the black hole of familial carelessness, he awaits the graceful moment when the mother, spurred on by Teddy, will give yet another soft shriek. She’ll lean close to the glass and put her eye there to search for Fish. Fish will be there, of course, hiding in the core of the murk near the figurine, playing possum, so that she will, when she sees him, feel the pitiful sinking in her gut—remembering the preschool field trip to Pet Universe—and a sorrow so deep it will send her to her knees to weep. She’ll think of the sad little pet funeral she hoped to perform when Fish died (when Fish’s sidekick died, Dad flushed him away): a small but deeply meaningful moment in the back yard, with the trowel, digging a shoebox-size hole, putting the fish in, performing a small rite (“Dear Lord, dear Heavenly Father, dear Fish God, God of Fish, in Fish’s name we gather here to put our dear fish to rest”), and then placing atop the burial mound a big rock painted with the word “fish.” It would be a moment designed to teach the children the ways of loss, and the soft intricacies of seeing something that was once alive now dead, and to clarify that sharp defining difference, to smooth it over a bit, so that they will remember the moment and know, later, recalling it, that she was a good mother, the kind who would hold pet funerals. But Fish is alive. His big old carp gills clutch and lick every tiny trace of oxygen from the froth of depravity in the inexplicably determinate manner that only animals have. He will have nothing to do with this household. And later that evening, once Dad is gone, they’ll hold a small party to celebrate his resurrection, because they had assumed—as was natural in these circumstances—that he was dead, or near enough death to be called dead, having near-death visions, as the dead are wont: that small pinpoint of light at the end of the tunnel and visions of an existence as a fish in some other ethery world, a better world for a fish, with fresh clear water bursting with oxygen and other carp large and small in communal bliss and just enough muck and mud for good pickings. After the celebration, before bedtime, they’ll cover the top of the clean tank in plastic wrap and, working together, moving slowly with the unison of pallbearers, being careful not to slosh the water, carry it down the stairs to the family room, where with a soft patter of congratulatory applause they’ll present Fish with a new home, right next to the television set. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Hell-Heaven	Pranab Chakraborty wasn’t technically my father’s younger brother. He was a fellow-Bengali from Calcutta who had washed up on the barren shores of my parents’ social life in the early seventies, when they lived in a rented apartment in Central Square and could number their acquaintances on one hand. But I had no real uncles in America, and so I was taught to call him Pranab Kaku. Accordingly, he called my father Shyamal Da, always addressing him in the polite form, and he called my mother Boudi, which is how Bengalis are supposed to address an older brother’s wife, instead of using her first name, Aparna. After Pranab Kaku was befriended by my parents, he confessed that on the day we first met him he had followed my mother and me for the better part of an afternoon around the streets of Cambridge, where she and I tended to roam after I got out of school. He had trailed behind us along Massachusetts Avenue, and in and out of the Harvard Coop, where my mother liked to look at discounted housewares. He wandered with us into Harvard Yard, where my mother often sat on the grass on pleasant days and watched the stream of students and professors filing busily along the paths, until, finally, as we were climbing the steps to Widener Library so that I could use the bathroom, he tapped my mother on the shoulder and inquired, in English, if she might be a Bengali. The answer to his question was clear, given that my mother was wearing the red and white bangles unique to Bengali married women, and a common Tangail sari, and had a thick stem of vermillion powder in the center parting of her hair, and the full round face and large dark eyes that are so typical of Bengali women. He noticed the two or three safety pins she wore fastened to the thin gold bangles that were behind the red and white ones, which she would use to replace a missing hook on a blouse or to draw a string through a petticoat at a moment’s notice, a practice he associated strictly with his mother and sisters and aunts in Calcutta. Moreover, Pranab Kaku had overheard my mother speaking to me in Bengali, telling me that I couldn’t buy an issue of Archie at the Coop. But back then, he also confessed, he was so new to America that he took nothing for granted, and doubted even the obvious. My parents and I had lived in Central Square for three years prior to that day; before that, we had lived in Berlin, where I was born and where my father had finished his training in microbiology before accepting a position as a researcher at Mass General, and before Berlin my mother and father had lived in India, where they had been strangers to each other, and where their marriage had been arranged. Central Square is the first place I can recall living, and in my memories of our apartment, in a dark-brown shingled house on Ashburton Place, Pranab Kaku is always there. According to the story he liked to recall often, my mother invited him to accompany us back to our apartment that very afternoon, and prepared tea for the two of them; then, after learning that he had not had a proper Bengali meal in more than three months, she served him the leftover curried mackerel and rice that we had eaten for dinner the night before. He remained into the evening, for a second dinner, after my father got home, and after that he showed up for dinner almost every night, occupying the fourth chair at our square Formica kitchen table, and becoming a part of our family in practice as well as in name. He was from a wealthy family in Calcutta and had never had to do so much as pour himself a glass of water before moving to America, to study engineering at M.I.T. Life as a graduate student in Boston was a cruel shock, and in his first month he lost nearly twenty pounds. He had arrived in January, in the middle of a snowstorm, and at the end of a week he had packed his bags and gone to Logan, prepared to abandon the opportunity he’d worked toward all his life, only to change his mind at the last minute. He was living on Trowbridge Street in the home of a divorced woman with two young children who were always screaming and crying. He rented a room in the attic and was permitted to use the kitchen only at specified times of the day, and instructed always to wipe down the stove with Windex and a sponge. My parents agreed that it was a terrible situation, and if they’d had a bedroom to spare they would have offered it to him. Instead, they welcomed him to our meals, and opened up our apartment to him at any time, and soon it was there he went between classes and on his days off, always leaving behind some vestige of himself: a nearly finished pack of cigarettes, a newspaper, a piece of mail he had not bothered to open, a sweater he had taken off and forgotten in the course of his stay. I remember vividly the sound of his exuberant laughter and the sight of his lanky body slouched or sprawled on the dull, mismatched furniture that had come with our apartment. He had a striking face, with a high forehead and a thick mustache, and overgrown, untamed hair that my mother said made him look like the American hippies who were everywhere in those days. His long legs jiggled rapidly up and down wherever he sat, and his elegant hands trembled when he held a cigarette between his fingers, tapping the ashes into a teacup that my mother began to set aside for this exclusive purpose. Though he was a scientist by training, there was nothing rigid or predictable or orderly about him. He always seemed to be starving, walking through the door and announcing that he hadn’t had lunch, and then he would eat ravenously, reaching behind my mother to steal cutlets as she was frying them, before she had a chance to set them properly on a plate with red-onion salad. In private, my parents remarked that he was a brilliant student, a star at Jadavpur who had come to M.I.T. with an impressive assistantship, but Pranab Kaku was cavalier about his classes, skipping them with frequency. “These Americans are learning equations I knew at Usha’s age,” he would complain. He was stunned that my second-grade teacher didn’t assign any homework, and that at the age of seven I hadn’t yet been taught square roots or the concept of pi. He appeared without warning, never phoning beforehand but simply knocking on the door the way people did in Calcutta and calling out “Boudi!” as he waited for my mother to let him in. Before we met him, I would return from school and find my mother with her purse in her lap and her trenchcoat on, desperate to escape the apartment where she had spent the day alone. But now I would find her in the kitchen, rolling out dough for luchis, which she normally made only on Sundays for my father and me, or putting up new curtains she’d bought at Woolworth’s. I did not know, back then, that Pranab Kaku’s visits were what my mother looked forward to all day, that she changed into a new sari and combed her hair in anticipation of his arrival, and that she planned, days in advance, the snacks she would serve him with such nonchalance. That she lived for the moment she heard him call out “Boudi!” from the porch, and that she was in a foul humor on the days he didn’t materialize. It must have pleased her that I looked forward to his visits as well. He showed me card tricks and an optical illusion in which he appeared to be severing his own thumb with enormous struggle and strength, and taught me to memorize multiplication tables well before I had to learn them in school. His hobby was photography. He owned an expensive camera that required thought before you pressed the shutter, and I quickly became his favorite subject, round-faced, missing teeth, my thick bangs in need of a trim. They are still the pictures of myself I like best, for they convey that confidence of youth I no longer possess, especially in front of a camera. I remember having to run back and forth in Harvard Yard as he stood with the camera, trying to capture me in motion, or posing on the steps of university buildings and on the street and against the trunks of trees. There is only one photograph in which my mother appears; she is holding me as I sit straddling her lap, her head tilted toward me, her hands pressed to my ears as if to prevent me from hearing something. In that picture, Pranab Kaku’s shadow, his two arms raised at angles to hold the camera to his face, hovers in the corner of the frame, his darkened, featureless shape superimposed on one side of my mother’s body. It was always the three of us. I was always there when he visited. It would have been inappropriate for my mother to receive him in the apartment alone; this was something that went without saying. They had in common all the things she and my father did not: a love of music, film, leftist politics, poetry. They were from the same neighborhood in North Calcutta, their family homes within walking distance, the façades familiar to them once the exact locations were described. They knew the same shops, the same bus and tram routes, the same holes-in-the-wall for the best jelabis and moghlai parathas. My father, on the other hand, came from a suburb twenty miles outside Calcutta, an area that my mother considered the wilderness, and even in her bleakest hours of homesickness she was grateful that my father had at least spared her a life in the stern house of her in-laws, where she would have had to keep her head covered with the end of her sari at all times and use an outhouse that was nothing but a raised platform with a hole, and where, in the rooms, there was not a single painting hanging on the walls. Within a few weeks, Pranab Kaku had brought his reel-to-reel over to our apartment, and he played for my mother medley after medley of songs from the Hindi films of their youth. They were cheerful songs of courtship, which transformed the quiet life in our apartment and transported my mother back to the world she’d left behind in order to marry my father. She and Pranab Kaku would try to recall which scene in which movie the songs were from, who the actors were and what they were wearing. My mother would describe Raj Kapoor and Nargis singing under umbrellas in the rain, or Dev Anand strumming a guitar on the beach in Goa. She and Pranab Kaku would argue passionately about these matters, raising their voices in playful combat, confronting each other in a way she and my father never did. Because he played the part of a younger brother, she felt free to call him Pranab, whereas she never called my father by his first name. My father was thirty-seven then, nine years older than my mother. Pranab Kaku was twenty-five. My father was monkish by nature, a lover of silence and solitude. He had married my mother to placate his parents; they were willing to accept his desertion as long as he had a wife. He was wedded to his work, his research, and he existed in a shell that neither my mother nor I could penetrate. Conversation was a chore for him; it required an effort he preferred to expend at the lab. He disliked excess in anything, voiced no cravings or needs apart from the frugal elements of his daily routine: cereal and tea in the mornings, a cup of tea after he got home, and two different vegetable dishes every night with dinner. He did not eat with the reckless appetite of Pranab Kaku. My father had a survivor’s mentality. From time to time, he liked to remark, in mixed company and often with no relevant provocation, that starving Russians under Stalin had resorted to eating the glue off the back of their wallpaper. One might think that he would have felt slightly jealous, or at the very least suspicious, about the regularity of Pranab Kaku’s visits and the effect they had on my mother’s behavior and mood. But my guess is that my father was grateful to Pranab Kaku for the companionship he provided, freed from the sense of responsibility he must have felt for forcing her to leave India, and relieved, perhaps, to see her happy for a change. In the summer, Pranab Kaku bought a navy-blue Volkswagen Beetle, and began to take my mother and me for drives through Boston and Cambridge, and soon outside the city, flying down the highway. He would take us to India Tea and Spices in Watertown, and one time he drove us all the way to New Hampshire to look at the mountains. As the weather grew hotter, we started going, once or twice a week, to Walden Pond. My mother always prepared a picnic of hard-boiled eggs and cucumber sandwiches, and talked fondly about the winter picnics of her youth, grand expeditions with fifty of her relatives, all taking the train into the West Bengal countryside. Pranab Kaku listened to these stories with interest, absorbing the vanishing details of her past. He did not turn a deaf ear to her nostalgia, like my father, or listen uncomprehending, like me. At Walden Pond, Pranab Kaku would coax my mother through the woods, and lead her down the steep slope to the water’s edge. She would unpack the picnic things and sit and watch us as we swam. His chest was matted with thick dark hair, all the way to his waist. He was an odd sight, with his pole-thin legs and a small, flaccid belly, like an otherwise svelte woman who has had a baby and not bothered to tone her abdomen. “You’re making me fat, Boudi,” he would complain after gorging himself on my mother’s cooking. He swam noisily, clumsily, his head always above the water; he didn’t know how to blow bubbles or hold his breath, as I had learned in swimming class. Wherever we went, any stranger would have naturally assumed that Pranab Kaku was my father, that my mother was his wife. It is clear to me now that my mother was in love with him. He wooed her as no other man had, with the innocent affection of a brother-in-law. In my mind, he was just a family member, a cross between an uncle and a much older brother, for in certain respects my parents sheltered and cared for him in much the same way they cared for me. He was respectful of my father, always seeking his advice about making a life in the West, about setting up a bank account and getting a job, and deferring to his opinions about Kissinger and Watergate. Occasionally, my mother would tease him about women, asking about female Indian students at M.I.T., or showing him pictures of her younger cousins in India. “What do you think of her?” she would ask. “Isn’t she pretty?” She knew that she could never have Pranab Kaku for herself, and I suppose it was her attempt to keep him in the family. But, most important, in the beginning he was totally dependent on her, needing her for those months in a way my father never did in the whole history of their marriage. He brought to my mother the first and, I suspect, the only pure happiness she ever felt. I don’t think even my birth made her as happy. I was evidence of her marriage to my father, an assumed consequence of the life she had been raised to lead. But Pranab Kaku was different. He was the one totally unanticipated pleasure in her life. In the fall of 1974, Pranab Kaku met a student at Radcliffe named Deborah, an American, and she began to accompany him to our house. I called Deborah by her first name, as my parents did, but Pranab Kaku taught her to call my father Shyamal Da and my mother Boudi, something with which Deborah gladly complied. Before they came to dinner for the first time, I asked my mother, as she was straightening up the living room, if I ought to address her as Deborah Kakima, turning her into an aunt as I had turned Pranab into an uncle. “What’s the point?” my mother said, looking back at me sharply. “In a few weeks, the fun will be over and she’ll leave him.” And yet Deborah remained by his side, attending the weekend parties that Pranab Kaku and my parents were becoming more involved with, gatherings that were exclusively Bengali with the exception of her. Deborah was very tall, taller than both my parents and nearly as tall as Pranab Kaku. She wore her long brass-colored hair center-parted, as my mother did, but it was gathered into a low ponytail instead of a braid, or it spilled messily over her shoulders and down her back in a way that my mother considered indecent. She wore small silver spectacles and not a trace of makeup, and she studied philosophy. I found her utterly beautiful, but according to my mother she had spots on her face, and her hips were too small. For a while, Pranab Kaku still showed up once a week for dinner on his own, mostly asking my mother what she thought of Deborah. He sought her approval, telling her that Deborah was the daughter of professors at Boston College, that her father published poetry, and that both her parents had Ph.D.s. When he wasn’t around, my mother complained about Deborah’s visits, about having to make the food less spicy even though Deborah said she liked spicy food, and feeling embarrassed to put a fried fish head in the dal. Pranab Kaku taught Deborah to say khub bhalo and aacha and to pick up certain foods with her fingers instead of with a fork. Sometimes they ended up feeding each other, allowing their fingers to linger in each other’s mouth, causing my parents to look down at their plates and wait for the moment to pass. At larger gatherings, they kissed and held hands in front of everyone, and when they were out of earshot my mother would talk to the other Bengali women. “He used to be so different. I don’t understand how a person can change so suddenly. It’s just hell-heaven, the difference,” she would say, always using the English words for her self-concocted, backward metaphor. The more my mother began to resent Deborah’s visits, the more I began to anticipate them. I fell in love with Deborah, the way young girls often fall in love with women who are not their mothers. I loved her serene gray eyes, the ponchos and denim wrap skirts and sandals she wore, her straight hair that she let me manipulate into all sorts of silly styles. I longed for her casual appearance; my mother insisted whenever there was a gathering that I wear one of my ankle-length, faintly Victorian dresses, which she referred to as maxis, and have party hair, which meant taking a strand from either side of my head and joining them with a barrette at the back. At parties, Deborah would, eventually, politely slip away, much to the relief of the Bengali women with whom she was expected to carry on a conversation, and she would play with me. I was older than all my parents’ friends’ children, but with Deborah I had a companion. She knew all about the books I read, about Pippi Longstocking and Anne of Green Gables. She gave me the sorts of gifts my parents had neither the money nor the inspiration to buy: a large book of Grimms’ fairy tales with watercolor illustrations on thick, silken pages, wooden puppets with hair fashioned from yarn. She told me about her family, three older sisters and two brothers, the youngest of whom was closer to my age than to hers. Once, after visiting her parents, she brought back three Nancy Drews, her name written in a girlish hand at the top of the first page, and an old toy she’d had, a small paper theatre set with interchangeable backdrops, the exterior of a castle and a ballroom and an open field. Deborah and I spoke freely in English, a language in which, by that age, I expressed myself more easily than Bengali, which I was required to speak at home. Sometimes she asked me how to say this or that in Bengali; once, she asked me what asobbho meant. I hesitated, then told her it was what my mother called me if I had done something extremely naughty, and Deborah’s face clouded. I felt protective of her, aware that she was unwanted, that she was resented, aware of the nasty things people said. Outings in the Volkswagen now involved the four of us, Deborah in the front, her hand over Pranab Kaku’s while it rested on the gearshift, my mother and I in the back. Soon, my mother began coming up with reasons to excuse herself, headaches and incipient colds, and so I became part of a new triangle. To my surprise, my mother allowed me to go with them, to the Museum of Fine Arts and the Public Garden and the aquarium. She was waiting for the affair to end, for Deborah to break Pranab Kaku’s heart and for him to return to us, scarred and penitent. I saw no sign of their relationship foundering. Their open affection for each other, their easily expressed happiness, was a new and romantic thing to me. Having me in the back seat allowed Pranab Kaku and Deborah to practice for the future, to try on the idea of a family of their own. Countless photographs were taken of me and Deborah, of me sitting on Deborah’s lap, holding her hand, kissing her on the cheek. We exchanged what I believed were secret smiles, and in those moments I felt that she understood me better than anyone else in the world. Anyone would have said that Deborah would make an excellent mother one day. But my mother refused to acknowledge such a thing. I did not know at the time that my mother allowed me to go off with Pranab Kaku and Deborah because she was pregnant for the fifth time since my birth, and was so sick and exhausted and fearful of losing another baby that she slept most of the day. After ten weeks, she miscarried once again, and was advised by her doctor to stop trying. By summer, there was a diamond on Deborah’s left hand, something my mother had never been given. Because his own family lived so far away, Pranab Kaku came to the house alone one day, to ask for my parents’ blessing before giving her the ring. He showed us the box, opening it and taking out the diamond nestled inside. “I want to see how it looks on someone,” he said, urging my mother to try it on, but she refused. I was the one who stuck out my hand, feeling the weight of the ring suspended at the base of my finger. Then he asked for a second thing: he wanted my parents to write to his parents, saying that they had met Deborah and that they thought highly of her. He was nervous, naturally, about telling his family that he intended to marry an American girl. He had told his parents all about us, and at one point my parents had received a letter from them, expressing appreciation for taking such good care of their son and for giving him a proper home in America. “It needn’t be long,” Pranab Kaku said. “Just a few lines. They’ll accept it more easily if it comes from you.” My father thought neither ill nor well of Deborah, never commenting or criticizing as my mother did, but he assured Pranab Kaku that a letter of endorsement would be on its way to Calcutta by the end of the week. My mother nodded her assent, but the following day I saw the teacup Pranab Kaku had used all this time as an ashtray in the kitchen garbage can, in pieces, and three Band-Aids taped to my mother’s hand. Pranab Kaku’s parents were horrified by the thought of their only son marrying an American woman, and a few weeks later our telephone rang in the middle of the night: it was Mr. Chakraborty telling my father that they could not possibly bless such a marriage, that it was out of the question, that if Pranab Kaku dared to marry Deborah he would no longer acknowledge him as a son. Then his wife got on the phone, asking to speak to my mother, and attacked her as if they were intimate, blaming my mother for allowing the affair to develop. She said that they had already chosen a wife for him in Calcutta, that he’d left for America with the understanding that he’d go back after he had finished his studies, and marry this girl. They had bought the neighboring flat in their building for Pranab and his betrothed, and it was sitting empty, waiting for his return. “We thought we could trust you, and yet you have betrayed us so deeply,” his mother said, taking out her anger on a stranger in a way she could not with her son. “Is this what happens to people in America?” For Pranab Kaku’s sake, my mother defended the engagement, telling his mother that Deborah was a polite girl from a decent family. Pranab Kaku’s parents pleaded with mine to talk him out of the engagement, but my father refused, deciding that it was not their place to get embroiled in a situation that had nothing to do with them. “We are not his parents,” he told my mother. “We can tell him they don’t approve but nothing more.” And so my parents told Pranab Kaku nothing about how his parents had berated them, and blamed them, and threatened to disown Pranab Kaku, only that they had refused to give him their blessing. In the face of this refusal, Pranab Kaku shrugged. “I don’t care. Not everyone can be as open-minded as you,” he told my parents. “Your blessing is blessing enough.” After the engagement, Pranab Kaku and Deborah began drifting out of our lives. They moved in together, to an apartment in Boston, in the South End, a part of the city my parents considered unsafe. We moved as well, to a house in Natick. Though my parents had bought the house, they occupied it as if they were still tenants, touching up scuff marks with leftover paint and reluctant to put holes in the walls, and every afternoon when the sun shone through the living-room window my mother closed the blinds so that our new furniture would not fade. A few weeks before the wedding, my parents invited Pranab Kaku to the house alone, and my mother prepared a special meal to mark the end of his bachelorhood. It would be the only Bengali aspect of the wedding; the rest of it would be strictly American, with a cake and a minister and Deborah in a long white dress and veil. There is a photograph of the dinner, taken by my father, the only picture, to my knowledge, in which my mother and Pranab Kaku appear together. The picture is slightly blurry; I remember Pranab Kaku explaining to my father how to work the camera, and so he is captured looking up from the kitchen table and the elaborate array of food my mother had prepared in his honor, his mouth open, his long arm outstretched and his finger pointing, instructing my father how to read the light meter or some such thing. My mother stands beside him, one hand placed on top of his head in a gesture of blessing, the first and last time she was to touch him in her life. “She will leave him,” my mother told her friends afterward. “He is throwing his life away.” The wedding was at a church in Ipswich, with a reception at a country club. It was going to be a small ceremony, which my parents took to mean one or two hundred people as opposed to three or four hundred. My mother was shocked that fewer than thirty people had been invited, and she was more perplexed than honored that, of all the Bengalis Pranab Kaku knew by then, we were the only ones on the list. At the wedding, we sat, like the other guests, first on the hard wooden pews of the church and then at a long table that had been set up for lunch. Though we were the closest thing Pranab Kaku had to a family that day, we were not included in the group photographs that were taken on the grounds of the country club, with Deborah’s parents and grandparents and her many siblings, and neither my mother nor my father got up to make a toast. My mother did not appreciate the fact that Deborah had made sure that my parents, who did not eat beef, were given fish instead of filet mignon like everyone else. She kept speaking in Bengali, complaining about the formality of the proceedings, and the fact that Pranab Kaku, wearing a tuxedo, barely said a word to us because he was too busy leaning over the shoulders of his new American in-laws as he circled the table. As usual, my father said nothing in response to my mother’s commentary, quietly and methodically working though his meal, his fork and knife occasionally squeaking against the surface of the china, because he was accustomed to eating with his hands. He cleared his plate and then my mother’s, for she had pronounced the food inedible, and then he announced that he had overeaten and had a stomach ache. The only time my mother forced a smile was when Deborah appeared behind her chair, kissing her on the cheek and asking if we were enjoying ourselves. When the dancing started, my parents remained at the table, drinking tea, and after two or three songs they decided that it was time for us to go home, my mother shooting me looks to that effect across the room, where I was dancing in a circle with Pranab Kaku and Deborah and the other children at the wedding. I wanted to stay, and when, reluctantly, I walked over to where my parents sat Deborah followed me. “Boudi, let Usha stay. She’s having such a good time,” she said to my mother. “Lots of people will be heading back your way, someone can drop her off in a little while.” But my mother said no, I had had plenty of fun already, and forced me to put on my coat over my long puff-sleeved dress. As we drove home from the wedding I told my mother, for the first but not the last time in my life, that I hated her. The following year, we received a birth announcement from the Chakrabortys, a picture of twin girls, which my mother did not paste into an album or display on the refrigerator door. The girls were named Srabani and Sabitri, but were called Bonny and Sara. Apart from a thank-you card for our wedding gift, it was their only communication; we were not invited to the new house in Marblehead, bought after Pranab Kaku got a high-paying job at Stone & Webster. For a while, my parents and their friends continued to invite the Chakrabortys to gatherings, but because they never came, or left after staying only an hour, the invitations stopped. Their absences were attributed, by my parents and their circle, to Deborah, and it was universally agreed that she had stripped Pranab Kaku not only of his origins but of his independence. She was the enemy, he was her prey, and their example was invoked as a warning, and as vindication, that mixed marriages were a doomed enterprise. Occasionally, they surprised everyone, appearing at a pujo for a few hours with their two identical little girls who barely looked Bengali and spoke only English and were being raised so differently from me and most of the other children. They were not taken to Calcutta every summer, they did not have parents who were clinging to another way of life and exhorting their children to do the same. Because of Deborah, they were exempt from all that, and for this reason I envied them. “Usha, look at you, all grown up and so pretty,” Deborah would say whenever she saw me, rekindling, if only for a minute, our bond of years before. She had cut off her beautiful long hair by then, and had a bob. “I bet you’ll be old enough to babysit soon,” she would say. “I’ll call you—the girls would love that.” But she never did. I began to grow out of my girlhood, entering middle school and developing crushes on the American boys in my class. The crushes amounted to nothing; in spite of Deborah’s compliments, I was always overlooked at that age. But my mother must have picked up on something, for she forbade me to attend the dances that were held the last Friday of every month in the school cafeteria, and it was an unspoken law that I was not allowed to date. “Don’t think you’ll get away with marrying an American, the way Pranab Kaku did,” she would say from time to time. I was thirteen, the thought of marriage irrelevant to my life. Still, her words upset me, and I felt her grip on me tighten. She would fly into a rage when I told her I wanted to start wearing a bra, or if I wanted to go to Harvard Square with a friend. In the middle of our arguments, she often conjured Deborah as her antithesis, the sort of woman she refused to be. “If she were your mother, she would let you do whatever you wanted, because she wouldn’t care. Is that what you want, Usha, a mother who doesn’t care?” When I began menstruating, the summer before I started ninth grade, my mother gave me a speech, telling me that I was to let no boy touch me, and then she asked if I knew how a woman became pregnant. I told her what I had been taught in science, about the sperm fertilizing the egg, and then she asked if I knew how, exactly, that happened. I saw the terror in her eyes and so, though I knew that aspect of procreation as well, I lied, and told her it hadn’t been explained to us. I began keeping other secrets from her, evading her with the aid of my friends. I told her I was sleeping over at a friend’s when really I went to parties, drinking beer and allowing boys to kiss me and fondle my breasts and press their erections against my hip as we lay groping on a sofa or the back seat of a car. I began to pity my mother; the older I got, the more I saw what a desolate life she led. She had never worked, and during the day she watched soap operas to pass the time. Her only job, every day, was to clean and cook for my father and me. We rarely went to restaurants, my father always pointing out, even in cheap ones, how expensive they were compared with eating at home. When my mother complained to him about how much she hated life in the suburbs and how lonely she felt, he said nothing to placate her. “If you are so unhappy, go back to Calcutta,” he would offer, making it clear that their separation would not affect him one way or the other. I began to take my cues from my father in dealing with her, isolating her doubly. When she screamed at me for talking too long on the telephone, or for staying too long in my room, I learned to scream back, telling her that she was pathetic, that she knew nothing about me, and it was clear to us both that I had stopped needing her, definitively and abruptly, just as Pranab Kaku had. Then, the year before I went off to college, my parents and I were invited to the Chakrabortys’ home for Thanksgiving. We were not the only guests from my parents’ old Cambridge crowd; it turned out that Pranab Kaku and Deborah wanted to have a sort of reunion of all the people they had been friendly with back then. Normally, my parents did not celebrate Thanksgiving; the ritual of a large sit-down dinner and the foods that one was supposed to eat was lost on them. They treated it as if it were Memorial Day or Veterans Day—just another holiday in the American year. But we drove out to Marblehead, to an impressive stone-faced house with a semicircular gravel driveway clogged with cars. The house was a short walk from the ocean; on our way, we had driven by the harbor overlooking the cold, glittering Atlantic, and when we stepped out of the car we were greeted by the sound of gulls and waves. Most of the living-room furniture had been moved to the basement, and extra tables joined to the main one to form a giant U. They were covered with tablecloths, set with white plates and silverware, and had centerpieces of gourds. I was struck by the toys and dolls that were everywhere, dogs that shed long yellow hairs on everything, all the photographs of Bonny and Sara and Deborah decorating the walls, still more plastering the refrigerator door. Food was being prepared when we arrived, something my mother always frowned upon, the kitchen a chaos of people and smells and enormous dirtied bowls. Deborah’s family, whom we remembered dimly from the wedding, was there, her parents and her brothers and sisters and their husbands and wives and boyfriends and babies. Her sisters were in their thirties, but, like Deborah, they could have been mistaken for college students, wearing jeans and clogs and fisherman sweaters, and her brother Matty, with whom I had danced in a circle at the wedding, was now a freshman at Amherst, with wide-set green eyes and wispy brown hair and a complexion that reddened easily. As soon as I saw Deborah’s siblings, joking with one another as they chopped and stirred things in the kitchen, I was furious with my mother for making a scene before we left the house and forcing me to wear a shalwar kameez. I knew they assumed, from my clothing, that I had more in common with the other Bengalis than with them. But Deborah insisted on including me, setting me to work peeling apples with Matty, and out of my parents’ sight I was given beer to drink. When the meal was ready, we were told where to sit, in an alternating boy-girl formation that made the Bengalis uncomfortable. Bottles of wine were lined up on the table. Two turkeys were brought out, one stuffed with sausage and one without. My mouth watered at the food, but I knew that afterward, on our way home, my mother would complain that it was all tasteless and bland. “Impossible,” my mother said, shaking her hand over the top of her glass when someone tried to pour her a little wine. Deborah’s father, Gene, got up to say grace, and asked everyone at the table to join hands. He bowed his head and closed his eyes. “Dear Lord, we thank you today for the food we are about to receive,” he began. My parents were seated next to each other, and I was stunned to see that they complied, that my father’s brown fingers lightly clasped my mother’s pale ones. I noticed Matty seated on the other side of the room, and saw him glancing at me as his father spoke. After the chorus of amens, Gene raised his glass and said, “Forgive me, but I never thought I’d have the opportunity to say this: Here’s to Thanksgiving with the Indians.” Only a few people laughed at the joke. Then Pranab Kaku stood up and thanked everyone for coming. He was relaxed from alcohol, his once wiry body beginning to thicken. He started to talk sentimentally about his early days in Cambridge, and then suddenly he recounted the story of meeting me and my mother for the first time, telling the guests about how he had followed us that afternoon. The people who did not know us laughed, amused by the description of the encounter, and by Pranab Kaku’s desperation. He walked around the room to where my mother was sitting and draped a lanky arm around her shoulder, forcing her, for a brief moment, to stand up. “This woman,” he declared, pulling her close to his side, “this woman hosted my first real Thanksgiving in America. It might have been an afternoon in May, but that first meal at Boudi’s table was Thanksgiving to me. If it weren’t for that meal, I would have gone back to Calcutta.” My mother looked away, embarrassed. She was thirty-eight, already going gray, and she looked closer to my father’s age than to Pranab Kaku’s; regardless of his waistline, he retained his handsome, carefree looks. Pranab Kaku went back to his place at the head of the table, next to Deborah, and concluded, “And if that had been the case I’d have never met you, my darling,” and he kissed her on the mouth in front of everyone, to much applause, as if it were their wedding day all over again. After the turkey, smaller forks were distributed and orders were taken for three different kinds of pie, written on small pads by Deborah’s sisters, as if they were waitresses. After dessert, the dogs needed to go out, and Pranab Kaku volunteered to take them. “How about a walk on the beach?” he suggested, and Deborah’s side of the family agreed that that was an excellent idea. None of the Bengalis wanted to go, preferring to sit with their tea and cluster together, at last, at one end of the room, speaking freely after the forced chitchat with the Americans during the meal. Matty came over and sat in the chair beside me that was now empty, encouraging me to join the walk. When I hesitated, pointing to my inappropriate clothes and shoes but also aware of my mother’s silent fury at the sight of us together, he said, “I’m sure Deb can lend you something.” So I went upstairs, where Deborah gave me a pair of her jeans and a thick sweater and some sneakers, so that I looked like her and her sisters. She sat on the edge of her bed, watching me change, as if we were girlfriends, and she asked if I had a boyfriend. When I told her no, she said, “Matty thinks you’re cute.” “He told you?” “No, but I can tell.” As I walked back downstairs, emboldened by this information, in the jeans I’d had to roll up and in which I felt finally like myself, I noticed my mother lift her eyes from her teacup and stare at me, but she said nothing, and off I went, with Pranab Kaku and his dogs and his in-laws, along a road and then down some steep wooden steps to the water. Deborah and one of her sisters stayed behind, to begin the cleanup and see to the needs of those who remained. Initially, we all walked together, in a single row across the sand, but then I noticed Matty hanging back, and so the two of us trailed behind, the distance between us and the others increasing. We began flirting, talking of things I no longer remember, and eventually we wandered into a rocky inlet and Matty fished a joint out of his pocket. We turned our backs to the wind and smoked it, our cold fingers touching in the process, our lips pressed to the same damp section of the rolling paper. At first I didn’t feel any effect, but then, listening to him talk about the band he was in, I was aware that his voice sounded miles away, and that I had the urge to laugh, even though what he was saying was not terribly funny. It felt as if we were apart from the group for hours, but when we wandered back to the sand we could still see them, walking out onto a rocky promontory to watch the sun set. It was dark by the time we all headed back to the house, and I dreaded seeing my parents while I was still high. But when we got there Deborah told me that my parents, feeling tired, had left, agreeing to let someone drive me home later. A fire had been lit and I was told to relax and have more pie as the leftovers were put away and the living room slowly put back in order. Of course, it was Matty who drove me home, and sitting in my parents’ driveway I kissed him, at once thrilled and terrified that my mother might walk onto the lawn in her nightgown and discover us. I gave Matty my phone number, and for a few weeks I thought of him constantly, and hoped foolishly that he would call. In the end, my mother was right, and fourteen years after that Thanksgiving, after twenty-three years of marriage, Pranab Kaku and Deborah got divorced. It was he who had strayed, falling in love with a married Bengali woman, destroying two families in the process. The other woman was someone my parents knew, though not very well. Deborah was in her forties by then, Bonny and Sara away at college. In her shock and grief, it was my mother whom Deborah turned to, calling and weeping into the phone. Somehow, through all the years, she had continued to regard us as quasi in-laws, sending flowers when my grandparents died, and giving me a compact edition of the O.E.D. as a college-graduation present. “You knew him so well. How could he do something like this?” Deborah asked my mother. And then, “Did you know anything about it?” My mother answered truthfully that she did not. Their hearts had been broken by the same man, only my mother’s had long ago mended, and in an odd way, as my parents approached their old age, she and my father had grown fond of each other, out of habit if nothing else. I believe my absence from the house, once I left for college, had something to do with this, because over the years, when I visited, I noticed a warmth between my parents that had not been there before, a quiet teasing, a solidarity, a concern when one of them fell ill. My mother and I had also made peace; she had accepted the fact that I was not only her daughter but a child of America as well. Slowly, she accepted that I dated one American man, and then another, and then yet another, that I slept with them, and even that I lived with one though we were not married. She welcomed my boyfriends into our home and when things didn’t work out she told me I would find someone better. After years of being idle, she decided, when she turned fifty, to get a degree in library science at a nearby university. On the phone, Deborah admitted something that surprised my mother: that all these years she had felt hopelessly shut out of a part of Pranab Kaku’s life. “I was so horribly jealous of you back then, for knowing him, understanding him in a way I never could. He turned his back on his family, on all of you, really, but I still felt threatened. I could never get over that.” She told my mother that she had tried, for years, to get Pranab Kaku to reconcile with his parents, and that she had also encouraged him to maintain ties with other Bengalis, but he had resisted. It had been Deborah’s idea to invite us to their Thanksgiving; ironically, the other woman had been there, too. “I hope you don’t blame me for taking him away from your lives, Boudi. I always worried that you did.” My mother assured Deborah that she blamed her for nothing. She confessed nothing to Deborah about her own jealousy of decades before, only that she was sorry for what had happened, that it was a sad and terrible thing for their family. She did not tell Deborah that a few weeks after Pranab Kaku’s wedding, while I was at a Girl Scout meeting and my father was at work, she had gone through the house, gathering up all the safety pins that lurked in drawers and tins, and adding them to the few fastened to her bracelets. When she’d found enough, she pinned them to her sari one by one, attaching the front piece to the layer of material underneath, so that no one would be able to pull the garment off her body. Then she took a can of lighter fluid and a box of kitchen matches and stepped outside, into our chilly back yard, which was full of leaves needing to be raked. Over her sari she was wearing a knee-length lilac trenchcoat, and to any neighbor she must have looked as though she’d simply stepped out for some fresh air. She opened up the coat and removed the tip from the can of lighter fluid and doused herself, then buttoned and belted the coat. She walked over to the garbage barrel behind our house and disposed of the fluid, then returned to the middle of the yard with the box of matches in her coat pocket. For nearly an hour she stood there, looking at our house, trying to work up the courage to strike a match. It was not I who saved her, or my father, but our next-door neighbor, Mrs. Holcomb, with whom my mother had never been particularly friendly. She came out to rake the leaves in her yard, calling out to my mother and remarking how beautiful the sunset was. “I see you’ve been admiring it for a while now,” she said. My mother agreed, and then she went back into the house. By the time my father and I came home in the early evening, she was in the kitchen boiling rice for our dinner, as if it were any other day. My mother told Deborah none of this. It was to me that she confessed, after my own heart was broken by a man I’d hoped to marry. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Islanders	Later in their travels, of course, they will not go out in rain like this. A heavy, silencing kind of rain, a hand over the sky’s mouth, a car door shut upon a hostage. They will be patient travellers by then; they will sit comfortably in Victorian tea shops and watch the soaked pedestrians running by, or they will shop for sheets or sweaters or anything else that they desire. But to take a day off at the very start of a trip, to tear up plans; that is impossible to do. It would be like spending a honeymoon apart. So they are out in the rain, driving past what the guidebook calls a “Bronze Age fort.” Low hills rise behind them, shaded down to gray by the rain, and to their left lies a loop of stones and the sea. The sea is nothing but a blind spot in the downpour. They are in Ireland. Maddy is reading the guidebook as they pass the fort. She is nearly forty, a small, kind woman on vacation with her oldest friend; she is a linguistics professor at a college in California and is used to being in charge of things, of people. But she is not in charge here; her friend Cat is driving. They hit a rock and Maddy flinches. They ford a stream and she reads aloud from her book as if it were something she knew: “ ‘There has never been a bridge on this spot.’ ” “Jesus Christ, where did you find that guidebook?” Cat says, laughing, driving with a wild flair. Cat is a year older than Maddy, a New Yorker in a black trenchcoat, thick black-framed glasses, and short blond hair; by now, she has managed to erase all signs of her poor Midwestern childhood. She has done well importing sunglasses from China, a business that she herself finds ridiculous. She is nearly six feet tall. The trenchcoat, magnificently striped inside, came out of a giant leather bag that is, to Maddy, a source of endless wonders. From it, Cat produced, on the plane, homeopathic travel remedies and blow-up pillows. Just last night: an enormous orange scarf (now worn as a sash). In a few weeks, of course, like any assistant travelling with a magic show, Maddy will learn the tricks and limits of the bag. But today her old friend can still astound her. “There has never been a bridge on this spot,” Cat repeats. “What kind of guidebook would mention what isn’t there?” “The woman at the store recommended it.” There is a whir of irritation inside Maddy, like the rising summer sound of insects. This trip is a kind of reunion, a sudden, special trip after years of living far apart, and perhaps, unlike when they were young, the old friends aren’t quite used to each other. Jokes that fall flat. Cat’s shifting tempers. Maddy’s sudden silences. “Note this field,” Cat suggests. “It is not a battlefield of any kind.” Her coarse laughter is too loud for the car, and Maddy is not in the mood. She looks back at her flawed guidebook. She has read as far as the chapter on the Blasket Islands. A few chapters later, there is a bit on the Tinkers, the mysterious group of people who travel around Ireland pulling small scams, or sometimes committing bloodier crimes: luring tourists to be mugged or beaten or worse. But she has not reached that section yet. It was Cat who first told her about the Blaskets; she had learned about them years ago and became obsessed with them. Maddy fears that they are also a flimsy motive for this trip, which has no obvious purpose except that Cat called early one morning from New York, forgetting the time difference in California, as ever, to announce that she was taking Maddy to Ireland. Not Maddy and her husband, Jason; just Maddy. “Why Ireland?” Maddy asked, half asleep, trying not to wake Jason, who looked so angry as he slept, as if burning off his doubt at night so that in the morning he could be a husband to her; Maddy was unaware that simply by asking this she was already on her way to Ireland, already drawn into Cat’s plans. “Well, who doesn’t want to go to Ireland?” she answered. As always, any version of the world other than her own was unthinkable. Maddy remembers it now, that persistent, childish trait of hers. Full of stubborn joy. All Cat seems to know for sure about the Blaskets is that they are a cluster of small, green, hilly islands just a few miles off the Dingle Peninsula—with its rising shroud of mist—where villagers with ancient ways lived until recently. She believes that they were pagan Celts who worshipped fertility gods; Maddy tells her she has got this idea from the film “The Wicker Man,” and that the guidebook doesn’t mention anything. Cat crossly says that she is nonetheless “really into them,” and, moments later, here they are: the Blasket Islands, humpbacked mounds scattered with rocks and furred with grass. A long way off across a choppy sea. Some small white specks are visible: the abandoned houses of the islanders. A ghost town off the shore of Ireland. “Now, that’s worth coming for. That’s worth coming all this way,” Cat says, stopping the car and rolling down the window. A mizzle of rain and sea air comes in. She chuckles, and adds, “Hey, Maddy. On this spot, no one ever died from love.” To Cat’s obvious delight, there is a sign pointing them through long, rustling grass to something called the Blasket Center. It’s unbelievable; after days of seeing small stone or half-timber houses, nothing could be less Irish than what rises before them: a great glass-and-wood structure, like a Scandinavian hotel, set out on a cliff with a direct view of the lost islands. Someone has planned parking for dozens, though there are only a few cars in the lots, and no buses. There is something patient, hopeful in the sound of the waving grass now that the rain is ending. Somewhere off to the left, Cat and Maddy hear the radio static of the sea. The men behind the ticket counter are young and handsome. When asked, though, they claim not to have any Blasket blood. “Did I insult them?” Cat whispers as she and Maddy make their way down an echoing gallery. At the far end, they can see a framed and glorious view of the Blaskets; side arches hint at additional galleries, exhibits, but there is no trace of other visitors. They have been informed that the restaurant’s special today is Thai Fish Cakes—rather a surprise—and that the video presentation has already begun. But only just; they can make it if they scurry. That is the word the handsome men use: “scurry.” The sound of Cat’s and Maddy’s running feet echoes up to the skylights. The Audio-Visual Theatre smells of new upholstery and glue; as their eyes adjust to the darkness, Cat and Maddy can see seating for more than a hundred. But they are utterly alone; the video presentation has begun in an empty room. Perhaps a computer is in charge. With the whispered chatter of adolescents, they take seats near the rear and Cat brings out a package of something from her magic bag. “What are these?” Maddy asks, but she cannot hear Cat’s response, so as an act of faith she takes some. They seem to have missed some crucial piece of information, because for a little while the video is confusing. An old man pokes through a leaf pile with a stick while an even older voice reads stilted poetry about a sinner; also, it takes some time for Cat and Maddy to get used to the accents. Eventually, some blotchy black-and-white footage shows Blasket Islanders (or “Blasketeers,” as Cat has begun to call them) moving in that jerky, silent-movie way around their houses, herding sheep, blinking suspiciously at the cameraman. There are some thirty kinds of flowers on the islands, and several kinds of butterflies. Maddy decides that what she is eating is Raisinets. Elegant violin music plays during intercuts of birds and the sea; a voice tells them that people were sighted on the islands in the nineteenth century. The video shows a priest arriving by boat to read Mass; they were not pagans, after all. In the darkness, Cat whispers, “I’m sort of not into them anymore.” Back to the black-and-white; maybe a dozen men at a prayer service. It seems that they ran out of women, and the men grew too old, and the very youngest fled to the mainland for some other kind of life. In 1953, the remaining Blasketeers had to be evacuated by the Irish government. There is footage of this also: humiliated old men being boated over to the mainland, to a world utterly foreign to them—in fact, to the very spot where Cat and Maddy are sitting. The old man with the stick turns out to be the son of one of these men, living in Springfield, Massachusetts. Apparently, there is a whole Blasket community in Springfield. Unceremoniously, the video presentation ends; perhaps the computer has decided to stop things early. Out in the bright gallery again, the two women are dumbfounded. “That’s it?” Cat whispers, staring at the photographs of the last Blasketeers. “That’s it? A whole museum about these pathetic people?” Something metallic is rising in her voice. “And Thai fish cakes, too,” Maddy adds. “No wonder nobody’s here!” Cat says. Maddy recognizes the tone; it’s laughter—a new kind, pleased and ruthless. “I mean, they present it like it’s the Holocaust, all that violin music and poetry and sad people. But they were only there for, like, eighty years. And let’s face it: they had to be evacuated because they simply couldn’t hack it!” Cat’s face is wide open with joy; Maddy is drawn in at last, just as when they were young. Maddy imitates the video, the slightly American brogue of the narrator: “Let us consider the mystery of the Blasket Islanders. Why were they so dumb?” Cat joins in: “Was it the sheep? The bad poetry?” “Was it the butterflies?” Down at the other end of the gallery, the attendants stare with their pale faces, concerned by the echoing laughter. At this end, as in an old portrait, the Great Blasket Island itself sits framed behind glass: solemn, its green hills buxom, its head veiled by a private rain. There were times in Maddy’s youth when she wondered if she was unlovable. It was a stupid, indulgent thought, a furtive hate she saved for hot May afternoons when she lay alone in bed. There, too, lay the vague, halfhearted thought of suicide. At twenty-two, no man had ever loved her; none had ever seemed to care about her for very long; her last boyfriend had ended things after two months, without ever having slept with her. When she asked why, he had answered (with that cruel plainness that comes with innocence, with youth), “I wasn’t sure I was attracted to you.” Wasn’t sure. He had been waiting for two months to be sure, had looked at her from all sides, and had found his answer at last: No. To remember that phrase of his, to repeat it in her head—“I wasn’t sure . . .”—what a satisfying agony. Maddy used to bring it out in her worst moments, like a miser with a precious jewel. It turned out, of course, that she had merely had a run of bad luck. Any older person could have told her this. She was not worthless, or chemically depressed; that awful doubt disappeared by her late twenties, when the kinds of men she’d dated before—rich, dull, and sexy, always girl-watching with drinks in their hands—held no appeal for her at all. Instead, she found grinning, eager men who acted as if she were the cause of all their joy, kind and loyal men like Jason; men who could not keep their hands off her, who missed her when she was gone. She forgot all about that unlovable girl. But back then, in the bad times, Cat had been her great ally. Cat, whom she had met at Brown, in a playwriting class, where they were assigned as partners. They began to spend all their time together, working on a play that began, according to Cat’s vision, with a dozen women at a costume ball who all come dressed as Scarlett O’Hara. Cat was an inconsistent girl, often calling Maddy to persuade her to come to the movies, but snapping in irritation if Maddy tried to invade her own solitude. She taught Maddy to sing in Portuguese, to shoplift mascara, to play a drinking game called Spoons; Maddy told Cat the secrets of her love life, her ambitions, and she gave to Cat her smiling patience, her fascination, and her fierce devotion. For two years after college, they shared a West Village apartment. There Maddy confided her fears while Cat sat smoking beneath a Blondie poster. “That’s stupid” was all she said, then stubbed out her cigarette. Cat, who had no man, no history of love. Who could have met or trumped Maddy’s woes with a lonely full house of her own, as any other female friend would have, arguing over who was uglier, less loved. Instead, Cat said what she believed to be true. That it was stupid. That Maddy was intensely lovable. Cat loved her, after all, and it was inconceivable to her that anyone would not share her opinion. On films, books, people. It irritated her to think otherwise. “That’s stupid. Pass me the lighter.” Had she meant to save Maddy’s life? They visit another miserable church shaped like an upturned boat, an ogham stone in a mystically deserted cemetery, a saint’s house, and then stop for lunch at a dark café that must have changed hands recently, since the owner seems flustered by everything on the menu and finally, smiling, offers only beef stew. The view is of cows and low stone walls and blurred water. Maddy is starved, but Cat is in some kind of trance, and proceeds to relate the entire plot of a science-fiction book she had just finished and didn’t really like. She tells the story while holding a spoonful of stew three inches from her mouth, but she is so involved in the telling that she keeps bringing the spoon close to her lips, and then taking it away as she remembers some new twist of the plot; this lasts for almost forty minutes before she finally takes a bite. Maddy is fascinated and slightly annoyed by this oddity. Cat, unaware, buys a rhubarb pie for the road. Out of the Dingle Peninsula, over Connor Pass, and the view is spectacular; it is the fourteen shades of green the guidebook promises. The road gets narrower, rockier, but Cat, still driving, does not seem to mind. Their destination is Ballyvaughan and the guesthouse of Mrs. Moore. Cat made these arrangements and now reveals that Mrs. Moore offers massage and aromatherapy in the room. She imagines Mrs. Moore to be a local witch and a nudist; she makes this joke almost to herself, staring out at the view. The rain is over, at least for now; the sun is out. A cold stream flows down from the rocks and across the road. Below, on the bay, the water is as blue as a glass eye. Every field is alive with grass. It is unbearably beautiful. Maddy awakens to very similar surroundings under a more hostile sky. She is surprised to find herself alone, the car stopped; it is parked in a gravel lot across from a moss-hided castle. The sky beyond it shows no sun at all anymore. As she sits up, she hears a voice; it’s Cat, in a nearby phone booth. “No,” Cat says bitterly into the phone. Through the rain-beaded glass, Maddy can see her friend’s face, her lips curled in some kind of disgust. She is clutching the orange scarf in her free hand. “No, we got lost. We got delayed.” Another long pause, and Cat says firmly, “We will make it, Mrs. Moore.” Maddy looks at the dashboard clock; two hours have passed. Something has changed. The barometer inside her senses it; she can feel it through the door of the car, through the phone-booth enclosure. She braces herself. Something has changed in Cat; something has happened. Cat hangs up the phone and stares at it for a moment. She looks bright and cold and lonely. Then she turns to Maddy, who has rolled down the window. “Hi there,” Maddy says, feigning drowsiness. “Where are we?” Cat says nothing. Maddy has pretended to herself that this is a natural, easygoing question, but of course it isn’t. She knows very well that they are lost. So it is a needling question; it blames. But she cannot help herself: “I guess we’re lost.” “You were asleep,” Cat says suddenly, accusingly. Her hair has curled in the rain and parted, showing dark roots that Maddy has never noticed before. “You should have woken me up. I’m good with maps.” “I’m sure you are.” A slight shift in subject: “That was Mrs. Moore?” “Yes, it was. I took care of it.” Maddy cannot resist another dig: “You want me to drive?” Cat gives her a sour glance; she looks like a person on the edge of hatred. Maddy recognizes this look from their youth, tries and fails to remember what she used to do with it. “I’m going over there,” Cat says to her, and where she points a little store has magically appeared. “I’ll be back.” While Maddy was asleep, Cat must have followed some Irish will-o’-the-wisp—a sign for an abbey, a grotto, a mermaid’s lair—and gone off on an adventure that led nowhere, merely stranded them here beside this castle; she must be embarrassed, frustrated, jealous of Maddy’s selfish sleep. Maddy could understand this and be kind, but for some reason she is not willing. She is too tired of it. It’s not my job to make her happy, she thinks. She gets out and shuts the door; the air is rainless, absolutely neutral. She leans back against the car, closes her eyes, enjoying the last waves of sleep as they leave her, briefly imagining the friendship fading. She thinks of Jason and the ease with which she moves with him; he never does this, is never so childish as to escalate a minor moment. At the very worst, he has to step out of the room and when she follows him he tells her to stay away, to give him a minute; sometimes he locks himself in the bathroom. When he emerges, one hand spread out on his chest as if he were pledging an oath, he is always contrite: “You were talking too fast; I can’t keep up, but I’ve thought it through and I want you to be happy.” His loyalty to her happiness is sublime, unending; it would take a bolt of madness to undo him. He never looks as if he hates her. She never thinks she is going to lose him. Someone touches her arm; she starts. Not Cat, but some chubby blond woman with a bad perm, holding a baby. She is dressed in a long shirt of faded flowers, slacks, and sandals whose clear plastic has dulled from dust. Her soft face is fixed and immobile, concentrated. She is as bland as butter. Maddy takes a step away. The woman approaches again and asks in a stern voice, “Miss, do you know how far to Dunquin?” She is Irish. Maddy wishes she knew the answer; she loves being an expert. She considers it, looks around at the gashes of stone walls among the hills. But of course she does not know where she is. “I’m sorry, I’m not from here.” “You see, we’ve run out of petrol, miss, and I’ve got my child.” On second glance, it is not quite a baby. Maybe two years old, but small and dirty, staring everywhere but at Maddy. A cold wind has begun to blow in from the sea, and it smells like leaves, like living things. “That’s a shame, maybe at that store—” “Could you help me with our map?” the woman asks. Her expression is still focussed on Maddy, as intense and plain as ever. “It’s back at the car.” There is a murmur like a mosquito in the back of Maddy’s mind. But perhaps she does know; it’s Cat who got them lost, after all. Maddy has always been good with a map. “Of course. I’m a tourist, though.” Well, surely the woman would have guessed that. As she follows the woman into the car park, she notices a little monument by the side of the road. A sculpture of a woman among the waves. “The Colleen Bawn,” a sign reads. “A fabled maid tricked into marriage and drowned.” Well, Maddy thinks, if there were a monument to every one of those . . . “We’re so low on petrol, you see,” the woman says. She has skin as pale and thick as bond paper; smoker’s skin, Maddy thinks. “And we’ve got no money of our own.” A toneless, monotonous voice; nothing pleading or sad in it. They’re at the car now, some make of car that Maddy has never heard of, small and rusted, a decade old or more. Her instinct tells her to walk away; she stifles it. There are clothes heaped in the back of the car, and a McDonald’s bag. It looks as if the woman and her child live in there. But where did they find a McDonald’s? “I don’t see a map,” Maddy says. The wind picks up; it is pulling at her hair, and she raises a hand to stop it. “It’s in there, under my coat,” the woman says, hoisting the child onto her other hip with a slight wince to her eyes. The child stares out at the castle; Maddy notices—strange how the mind works so constantly, uselessly—that the castle is for sale. She pulls herself back to the car, watching, sensing that she should be watching. With one free hand, the woman opens the driver’s-side door. Maddy looks into the car, where a red Windbreaker lies crumpled on the passenger seat. So red. A murmur of warning. She begins to turn away, toward some bushes rustling in the wind, but the woman points, directing her attention back to the car: “We’re just worried about petrol. So we can eat.” “I can’t give you any money,” Maddy finds herself saying. It takes everything she has to say it. “I just need help with the map,” the woman says, clearly affronted. “I don’t mean—” The woman gestures toward the car. “Miss, if you could get the map for me, just climb in there for me—” Maddy looks into the filthy car, the open door. The wind has stopped, yet she still hears the bushes rustling. “Perhaps I—” The woman says, “Just in there.” “It’s not that I—” “All right, then, take her for me.” The woman lifts up the child, and Maddy knows this is wrong, for though she cannot possibly see the man’s shadow moving in the bushes, she knows at once it is a trick. If she takes the child she will be burdened, helpless, vulnerable. For the first time, the child—a girl, apparently—looks straight at Maddy with an expression of blank appraisal. As if she had seen her type before: These overeducated women who now live in California and cannot tell anyone, not even their husbands, how much they miss New York, because in New York everything might change at any moment—you could have an affair, or bump into an old friend, or lose your life. These women who talk about breeds of dogs, varietals of wine, faucets and tile and hardwood floors. These women who come to Ireland because it is neither obvious nor unexpected, neither strange nor familiar; it is like everything else they choose; it is their life; it is probably what they expect of death. The woman holds the child out to Maddy; the child reaches out her hands to be held. And there is nothing Maddy can do but lift her own hands to accept her. Nothing she can do but this. No way to untie this knot, no way to change things, not even if she hears the boot scraping on gravel, or notices, in the sun’s brief reappearance, the glint in the bushes that anyone would know is a knife. But from somewhere beyond the shock of weeds it comes: the piercing call of a whistle. Years from now, Maddy’s life will need saving again. She will be old; Jason will be old. She will be sitting in the waiting room of the hospital while the nurses ready her husband to see her. It will be early in the morning, the nurses having called to tell her that he has awoken from his short coma—just a few terrifying days—the result of an unexpected, devastating virus. It is common for coma patients to have very little recall; for instance, he will not remember anyone named Maddy. But he will have been told that she is his wife, and that she is arriving today. A nurse in clogs will come out and whisper that she can see him now. In Maddy’s hands: flowers, bright-red dahlias, perhaps to jolt something, to be so bright and sudden that his brain will come alive with love. She will walk into his room, a pale-green sunlit room, to find him sitting up stiffly in bed, his gray hair combed oddly across his forehead, his faithful smile aimed at the nurse. “Mr. Dean, your wife is here.” He will look over, and she will see it in his eyes. “Hello,” he’ll say. “Hello, and you’re my wife?” But she will know what he is thinking. There must be some mistake, his eyes will say to her. I don’t think I would marry a woman like you. It will take a visit to Cat in New York, a week of drinks and dinners and long talks in Cat’s darkened living room, to survive it. But it will be Cat who saves her, as always. Cat, old herself, round and grumpy in a large apartment filled with Caribbean art, her white hair done up in a kerchief, still stubborn in her belief that Maddy should be cherished, a belief that does not come from mere loyalty. She will be pompous, moody, and worn out by solitude. She will change the subject; she will say, “Remember in Ireland? When we were lost? I was so mad at you, you were always so impossible. Remember how I saved your life? I was out at the store and I bought those green whistles; I came out and the car was empty. But then I saw you, with that man coming up, and I blew my whistle. And you came running to me. Remember?” “I do.” “Oh, and remember! ‘The mystery of the Blaskets. Why were they so dumb?’ ” The unexpected summoning of a decades-old voice: “And on this spot no one ever died from love.” Sharp, familiar laughter. But what Maddy will recall is the wet, smoky scent of the air that day, the cigarette butts in the gravel, the red Windbreaker. The child’s eyes, the waiting shadow inside the bushes. The spell-breaking sound of Cat’s awful whistle and how it took the bottom out of everything, let it all spill out onto the ground, and how somehow Maddy was running, pushing through the wet weeds to find her friend waiting, blowing on her whistle with a child’s concentration, the trenchcoat spattered with mud, the orange scarf wrapped around her head. Strange to know, to name your protector. Her face as she glances Maddy’s way, and that one eyebrow lifted like a fermata, like the very sign of love. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Old Boys, Old Girls	Credit Leonard Freed (1978) / Magnum They caught him after he had killed the second man. The law would never connect him to the first murder. So the victim—a stocky fellow Caesar Matthews shot in a Northeast alley only two blocks from the home of the guy’s parents, a man who died over a woman who was actually in love with a third man—was destined to lie in his grave without anyone officially paying for what had happened to him. It was almost as if, at least on the books the law kept, Caesar had got away with a free killing. Seven months after he stabbed the second man—a twenty-two-year-old with prematurely gray hair who had ventured out of Southeast for only the sixth time in his life—Caesar was tried for murder in the second degree. During much of the trial, he remembered the name only of the first dead man—Percy, or “Golden Boy,” Weymouth—and not the second, Antwoine Stoddard, to whom everyone kept referring during the proceedings. The world had done things to Caesar since he’d left his father’s house for good at sixteen, nearly fourteen years ago, but he had done far more to himself. So at trial, with the weight of all the harm done to him and because he had hidden for months in one shit hole after another, he was not always himself and thought many times that he was actually there for killing Golden Boy, the first dead man. He was not insane, but he was three doors from it, which was how an old girlfriend, Yvonne Miller, would now and again playfully refer to his behavior. Who the fuck is this Antwoine bitch? Caesar sometimes thought during the trial. And where is Percy? It was only when the judge sentenced him to seven years in Lorton, D.C.’s prison in Virginia, that matters became somewhat clear again, and in those last moments before they took him away he saw Antwoine spread out on the ground outside the Prime Property night club, blood spurting out of his chest like oil from a bountiful well. Caesar remembered it all: sitting on the sidewalk, the liquor spinning his brain, his friends begging him to run, the club’s music flooding out of the open door and going thumpety-thump-thump against his head. He sat a few feet from Antwoine, and would have killed again for a cigarette. “That’s you, baby, so very near insanity it can touch you,” said Yvonne, who believed in unhappiness and who thought happiness was the greatest trick God had invented. Yvonne Miller would be waiting for Caesar at the end of the line. He came to Lorton with a ready-made reputation, since Multrey Wilson and Tony Cathedral—first-degree murderers both, and destined to die there—knew him from his Northwest and Northeast days. They were about as big as you could get in Lorton at that time (the guards called Lorton the House of Multrey and Cathedral), and they let everyone know that Caesar was good people, “a protected body,” with no danger of having his biscuits or his butt taken. A little less than a week after Caesar arrived, Cathedral asked him how he liked his cellmate. Caesar had never been to prison but had spent five days in the D.C. jail, not counting the time there before and during the trial. They were side by side at dinner, and neither man looked at the other. Multrey sat across from them. Cathedral was done eating in three minutes, but Caesar always took a long time to eat. His mother had raised him to chew his food thoroughly. “You wanna be a old man livin on oatmeal?” “I love oatmeal, Mama.” “Tell me that when you have to eat it every day till you die.” “He all right, I guess,” Caesar said of his cellmate, with whom he had shared fewer than a thousand words. Caesar’s mother had died before she saw what her son became. “You got the bunk you want, the right bed?” Multrey said. He was sitting beside one of his two “women,” the one he had turned out most recently. “She” was picking at her food, something Multrey had already warned her about. The woman had a family—a wife and three children—but they would not visit. Caesar would never have visitors, either. “It’s all right.” Caesar had taken the top bunk, as the cellmate had already made the bottom his home. A miniature plastic panda from his youngest child dangled on a string hung from one of the metal bedposts. “Bottom, top, it’s all the same ship.” Cathedral leaned into him, picking chicken out of his teeth with an inch-long fingernail sharpened to a point. “Listen, man, even if you like the top bunk, you fuck him up for the bottom just cause you gotta let him know who rules. You let him know that you will stab him through his motherfuckin heart and then turn around and eat your supper, cludin the dessert.” Cathedral straightened up. “Caes, you gon be here a few days, so you can’t let nobody fuck with your humanity.” He went back to the cell and told Pancho Morrison that he wanted the bottom bunk, couldn’t sleep well at the top. “Too bad,” Pancho said. He was lying down, reading a book published by the Jehovah’s Witnesses. He wasn’t a Witness, but he was curious. Caesar grabbed the book and flung it at the bars, and the bulk of it slid through an inch or so and dropped to the floor. He kicked Pancho in the side, and before he could pull his leg back for a second kick Pancho took the foot in both hands, twisted it, and threw him against the wall. Then Pancho was up, and they fought for nearly an hour before two guards, who had been watching the whole time, came in and beat them about the head. “Show’s over! Show’s over!” one kept saying. They attended to themselves in silence in the cell, and with the same silence they flung themselves at each other the next day after dinner. They were virtually the same size, and though Caesar came to battle with more muscle, Pancho had more heart. Cathedral had told Caesar that morning that Pancho had lived on practically nothing but heroin for the three years before Lorton, so whatever fighting dog was in him could be pounded out in little or no time. It took three days. Pancho was the father of five children, and each time he swung he did so with the memory of all five and what he had done to them over those three addicted years. He wanted to return to them and try to make amends, and he realized on the morning of the third day that he would not be able to do that if Caesar killed him. So fourteen minutes into the fight he sank to the floor after Caesar hammered him in the gut. And though he could have got up he stayed there, silent and still. The two guards laughed. The daughter who had given Pancho the panda was nine years old and had been raised by her mother as a Catholic. That night, before the place went dark, Caesar lay on the bottom bunk and looked over at pictures of Pancho’s children, which Pancho had taped on the opposite wall. He knew he would have to decide if he wanted Pancho just to move the photographs or to put them away altogether. All the children had toothy smiles. The two youngest stood, in separate pictures, outdoors in their First Communion clothes. Caesar himself had been a father for two years. A girl he had met at an F Street club in Northwest had told him he was the father of her son, and for a time he had believed her. Then the boy started growing big ears that Caesar thought didn’t belong to anyone in his family, and so after he had slapped the girl a few times a week before the child’s second birthday she confessed that the child belonged to “my first love.” “Your first love is always with you,” she said, sounding forever like a television addict who had never read a book. As Caesar prepared to leave, she asked him, “You want back all the toys and things you gave him?” The child, as if used to their fighting, had slept through this last encounter on the couch, part of a living-room suite that they were paying for on time. Caesar said nothing more and didn’t think about his 18k.-gold cigarette lighter until he was eight blocks away. The girl pawned the thing and got enough to pay off the furniture bill. Caesar and Pancho worked in the laundry, and Caesar could look across the noisy room with all the lint swirling about and see Pancho sorting dirty pieces into bins. Then he would push uniform bins to the left and everything else to the right. Pancho had been doing that for three years. The job he got after he left Lorton was as a gofer at construction sites. No laundry in the outside world wanted him. Over the next two weeks, as Caesar watched Pancho at his job, his back always to him, he considered what he should do next. He wasn’t into fucking men, so that was out. He still had not decided what he wanted done about the photographs on the cell wall. One day at the end of those two weeks, Caesar saw the light above Pancho’s head flickering and Pancho raised his head and looked for a long time at it, as if thinking that the answer to all his problems lay in fixing that one light. Caesar decided then to let the pictures remain on the wall. Three years later, they let Pancho go. The two men had mostly stayed at a distance from each other, but toward the end they had been talking, sharing plans about a life beyond Lorton. The relationship had reached the point where Caesar was saddened to see the children’s photographs come off the wall. Pancho pulled off the last taped picture and the wall was suddenly empty in a most forlorn way. Caesar knew the names of all the children. Pancho gave him a rabbit’s foot that one of his children had given him. It was the way among all those men that when a good-luck piece had run out of juice it was given away with the hope that new ownership would renew its strength. The rabbit’s foot had lost its electricity months before Pancho’s release. Caesar’s only good-fortune piece was a key chain made in Peru; it had been sweet for a bank robber in the next cell for nearly two years until that man’s daughter, walking home from third grade, was abducted and killed. One day after Pancho left, they brought in a thief and three-time rapist of elderly women. He nodded to Caesar and told him that he was Watson Rainey and went about making a home for himself in the cell, finally plugging in a tiny lamp with a green shade which he placed on the metal shelf jutting from the wall. Then he climbed onto the top bunk he had made up and lay down. His name was all the wordplay he had given Caesar, who had been smoking on the bottom bunk throughout Rainey’s efforts to make a nest. Caesar waited ten minutes and then stood and pulled the lamp’s cord out of the wall socket and grabbed Rainey with one hand and threw him to the floor. He crushed the lamp into Rainey’s face. He choked him with the cord. “You come into my house and show me no respect!” Caesar shouted. The only sound Rainey could manage was a gurgling that bubbled up from his mangled mouth. There were no witnesses except for an old man across the way, who would occasionally glance over at the two when he wasn’t reading his Bible. It was over and done with in four minutes. When Rainey came to, he found everything he owned piled in the corner, soggy with piss. And Caesar was again on the top bunk. They would live in that cell together until Caesar was released, four years later. Rainey tried never to be in the house during waking hours; if he was there when Caesar came in, he would leave. Rainey’s name spoken by him that first day were all the words that would ever pass between the two men. A week or so after Rainey got there, Caesar bought from Multrey a calendar that was three years old. It was large and had no markings of any sort, as pristine as the day it was made. “You know this one ain’t the year we in right now,” Multrey said as one of his women took a quarter from Caesar and dropped it in her purse. Caesar said, “It’ll do.” Multrey prized the calendar for one thing: its top half had a photograph of a naked woman of indeterminate race sitting on a stool, her legs wide open, her pussy aimed dead at whoever was standing right in front of her. It had been Multrey’s good-luck piece, but the luck was dead. Multrey remembered what the calendar had done for him and he told his woman to give Caesar his money back, lest any new good-fortune piece turn sour on him. The calendar’s bottom half had the days of the year. That day, the first Monday in June, Caesar drew in the box that was January 1st a line that went from the upper left-hand corner down to the bottom right-hand corner. The next day, a June Tuesday, he made a line in the January 2nd box that also ran in the same direction. And so it went. When the calendar had all such lines in all the boxes, it was the next June. Then Caesar, in that January 1st box, made a line that formed an X with the first line. And so it was for another year. The third year saw horizontal marks that sliced the boxes in half. The fourth year had vertical lines down the centers of the boxes. This was the only calendar Caesar had in Lorton. That very first Monday, he taped the calendar over the area where the pictures of Pancho’s children had been. There was still a good deal of empty space left, but he didn’t do anything about it, and Rainey knew he couldn’t do anything, either. The calendar did right by Caesar until near the end of his fifth year in Lorton, when he began to feel that its juice was drying up. But he kept it there to mark off the days and, too, the naked woman never closed her legs to him. “I’ve got a weak muscle in my eye, and my doctor says the patch will help.”Buy the print » In that fifth year, someone murdered Multrey as he showered. The killers—it had to be more than one for a man like Multrey—were never found. The Multrey woman who picked at her food had felt herself caring for a recent arrival who was five years younger than her, a part-time deacon who had killed a Southwest bartender for calling the deacon’s wife “a woman without one fuckin brain cell.” The story of that killing—the bartender was dropped head first from the roof of a ten-story building—became legend, and in Lorton men referred to the dead bartender as “the Flat-Head Insulter” and the killer became known as “the Righteous Desulter.” The Desulter, wanting Multrey’s lady, had hired people to butcher him. It had always been the duty of the lady who hated food to watch out for Multrey as he showered, but she had stepped away that day, just as she had been instructed to by the Desulter. In another time, Cathedral and Caesar would have had enough of everything—from muscle to influence—to demand that someone give up the killers, but the prison was filling up with younger men who did not care what those two had been once upon a time. Also, Cathedral had already had two visits from the man he had killed in Northwest. Each time, the man had first stood before the bars of Cathedral’s cell. Then he held one of the bars and opened the door inward, like some wooden door on a person’s house. The dead man standing there would have been sufficient to unwrap anyone, but matters were compounded when Cathedral saw a door that for years had slid sideways now open in an impossible fashion. The man stood silent before Cathedral, and when he left he shut the door gently, as if there were sleeping children in the cell. So Cathedral didn’t have a full mind, and Multrey was never avenged. There was an armed-robbery man in the place, a tattooer with homemade inks and needles. He made a good living painting on both muscled and frail bodies the names of children; the Devil in full regalia with a pitchfork dripping with blood; the words “Mother” or “Mother Forever” surrounded by red roses and angels who looked sad, because when it came to drawing happy angels the tattoo man had no skills. One pickpocket had had a picture of his father tattooed in the middle of his chest; above the father’s head, in medieval lettering, were the words “Rotting in Hell,” with the letter “H” done in fiery yellow and red. The tattoo guy had told Caesar that he had skin worthy of “a painter’s best canvas,” that he could give Caesar a tattoo “God would envy.” Caesar had always told him no, but then he awoke one snowy night in March of his sixth year and realized that it was his mother’s birthday. He did not know what day of the week it was, but the voice that talked to him had the authority of a million loving mothers. He had long ago forgotten his own birthday, had not even bothered to ask someone in prison records to look it up. There had never been anyone or anything he wanted commemorated on his body. Maybe it would have been Carol, his first girlfriend twenty years ago, before the retarded girl entered their lives. He had played with the notion of having the name of the boy he thought was his put over his heart, but the lie had come to light before that could happen. And before the boy there had been Yvonne, with whom he had lived for an extraordinary time in Northeast. He would have put Yvonne’s name over his heart, but she went off to work one day and never came back. He looked for her for three months, and then just assumed that she had been killed somewhere and dumped in a place only animals knew about. Yvonne was indeed dead, and she would be waiting for him at the end of the line, though she did not know that was what she was doing. “You can always trust unhappiness,” Yvonne had once said, sitting in the dark on the couch, her cigarette burned down to the filter. “His face never changes. But happiness is slick, can’t be trusted. It has a thousand faces, Caes, all of them just ready to reform into unhappiness once it has you in its clutches.” So Caesar had the words “Mother Forever” tattooed on his left bicep. Knowing that more letters meant a higher payment of cigarettes or money or candy, the tattoo fellow had dissuaded him from having just plain “Mother.” “How many hours you think she spent in labor?” he asked Caesar. “Just to give you life.” The job took five hours over two days, during a snowstorm. Caesar said no to angels, knowing the man’s ability with happy ones, and had the words done in blue letters encased in red roses. The man worked from the words printed on a piece of paper that Caesar had given him, because he was also a bad speller. The snow stopped on the third day and, strangely, it took only another three days for the two feet of mess to melt, for with the end of the storm came a heat wave. The tattoo man, a good friend of the Righteous Desulter, would tell Caesar in late April that what happened to him was his own fault, that he had not taken care of himself as he had been instructed to do. “And the heat ain’t helped you neither.” On the night of March 31st, five days after the tattoo had been put on, Caesar woke in the night with a pounding in his left arm. He couldn’t return to sleep so he sat on the edge of his bunk until morning, when he saw that the “e”s in “Mother Forever” had blistered, as if someone had taken a match to them. He went to the tattoo man, who first told him not to worry, then patted the “e”s with peroxide that he warmed in a spoon with a match. Within two days, the “e”s seemed to just melt away, each dissolving into an ugly pile at the base of the tattoo. After a week, the diseased “e”s began spreading their work to the other letters and Caesar couldn’t move his arm without pain. He went to the infirmary. They gave him aspirin and Band-Aided the tattoo. He was back the next day, the day the doctor was there. He spent four days in D.C. General Hospital, his first trip back to Washington since a court appearance more than three years before. His entire body was paralyzed for two days, and one nurse confided to him the day he left that he had been near death. In the end, after the infection had done its work, there was not much left of the tattoo except an “o” and an “r,” which were so deformed they could never pass for English, and a few roses that looked more like red mud. When he returned to prison, the tattoo man offered to give back the cigarettes and the money, but Caesar never gave him an answer, leading the man to think that he should watch his back. What happened to Caesar’s tattoo and to Caesar was bad advertising, and soon the fellow had no customers at all. Something had died in the arm and the shoulder, and Caesar was never again able to raise the arm more than thirty-five degrees. He had no enemies, but still he told no one about his debilitation. For the next few months he tried to stay out of everyone’s way, knowing that he was far more vulnerable than he had been before the tattoo. Alone in the cell, with no one watching across the way, he exercised the arm, but by November he knew at last he would not be the same again. He tried to bully Rainey Watson as much as he could to continue the façade that he was still who he had been. And he tried to spend more time with Cathedral. But the man Cathedral had killed had become a far more constant visitor. The dead man, a young bachelor who had been Cathedral’s next-door neighbor, never spoke. He just opened Cathedral’s cell door inward and went about doing things as if the cell were a family home—straightening wall pictures that only Cathedral could see, turning down the gas on the stove, testing the shower water to make sure that it was not too hot, tucking children into bed. Cathedral watched silently. Caesar went to Cathedral’s cell one day in mid-December, six months before they freed him. He found his friend sitting on the bottom bunk, his hands clamped over his knees. He was still outside the cell when Cathedral said, “Caes, you tell me why God would be so stupid to create mosquitoes. I mean, what good are the damn things? What’s their function?” Caesar laughed, thinking it was a joke, and he had started to offer something when Cathedral looked over at him with a devastatingly serious gaze and said, “What we need is a new God. Somebody who knows what the fuck he’s doing.” Cathedral was not smiling. He returned to staring at the wall across from him. “What’s with creatin bats? I mean, yes, they eat insects, but why create those insects to begin with? You see what I mean? Creatin a problem and then havin to create somethin to take care of the problem. And then comin up with somethin for that second problem. Man oh man!” Caesar slowly began moving away from Cathedral’s cell. He had seen this many times before. It could not be cured even by great love. It sometimes pulled down a loved one. “And roaches. Every human bein in the world would have the sense not to create roaches. What’s their function, Caes? I tell you, we need a new God, and I’m ready to cast my vote right now. Roaches and rats and chinches. God was out of his fuckin mind that week. Six wasted days, cept for the human part and some of the animals. And then partyin on the seventh day like he done us a big favor. The nerve of that motherfucker. And all your pigeons and squirrels. Don’t forget them. I mean really.” In late January, they took Cathedral somewhere and then brought him back after a week. He returned to his campaign for a new God in February. A ritual began that would continue until Caesar left: determine that Cathedral was a menace to himself, take him away, bring him back, then take him away when he started campaigning again for another God. There was now nothing for Caesar to do except try to coast to the end on a reputation that was far less than it had been in his first years at Lorton. He could only hope that he had built up enough good will among men who had better reputations and arms that worked a hundred per cent. In early April, he received a large manila envelope from his attorney. The lawyer’s letter was brief. “I did not tell them where you are,” he wrote. “They may have learned from someone that I was your attorney. Take care.” There were two separate letters in sealed envelopes from his brother and sister, each addressed to “My Brother Caesar.” Dead people come back alive, Caesar thought many times before he finally read the letters, after almost a week. He expected an announcement about the death of his father, but he was hardly mentioned. Caesar’s younger brother went on for five pages with a history of what had happened to the family since Caesar had left their lives. He ended by saying, “Maybe I should have been a better brother.” There were three pictures as well, one of his brother and his bride on their wedding day, and one showing Caesar’s sister, her husband, and their two children, a girl of four or so and a boy of about two. The third picture had the girl sitting on a couch beside the boy, who was in Caesar’s father’s lap, looking with interest off to the left, as if whatever was there were more important than having his picture taken. Caesar looked at the image of his father—a man on the verge of becoming old. His sister’s letter had even less in it than the lawyer’s: “Write to me, or call me collect, whatever is best for you, dear one. Call even if you are on the other side of the world. For every step you take to get to me, I will walk a mile toward you.” He had an enormous yearning at first, but after two weeks he tore everything up and threw it all away. He would be glad he had done this as he stumbled, hurt and confused, out of his sister’s car less than half a year later. The girl and the boy would be in the back seat, the girl wearing a red dress and black shoes, and the boy in blue pants and a T-shirt with a cartoon figure on the front. The boy would have fallen asleep, but the girl would say, “Nighty-night, Uncle,” which she had been calling him all that evening. An ex-offenders’ group, the Light at the End of the Tunnel, helped him to get a room and a job washing dishes and busing tables at a restaurant on F Street. The room was in a three-story building in the middle of the 900 block of N Street, Northwest, a building that, in the days when white people lived there, had had two apartments of eight rooms or so on each floor. Now the first-floor apartments were uninhabitable and had been padlocked for years. On the two other floors, each large apartment had been divided into five rented rooms, which went for twenty to thirty dollars a week, depending on the size and the view. Caesar’s was small, twenty dollars, and had half the space of his cell at Lorton. The word that came to him for the butchered, once luxurious apartments was “warren.” The roomers in each of the cut-up apartments shared two bathrooms and one nice-sized kitchen, which was a pathetic place because of its dinginess and its fifty-watt bulb, and because many of the appliances were old or undependable or both. Caesar’s narrow room was at the front, facing N Street. On his side of the hall were two other rooms, the one next to his housing a mother and her two children. He would not know until his third week there that along the other hall was Yvonne Miller. There was one main entry door for each of the complexes. In the big room to the left of the door into Caesar’s complex lived a man of sixty or so, a pajama-clad man who was never out of bed in all the time Caesar lived there. He could walk, but Caesar never saw him do it. A woman, who told Caesar one day that she was “a home health-care aide,” was always in the man’s room, cooking, cleaning, or watching television with him. His was the only room with its own kitchen setup in a small alcove—a stove, icebox, and sink. His door was always open, and he never seemed to sleep. A green safe, three feet high, squatted beside the bed. “I am a moneylender,” the man said the second day Caesar was there. He had come in and walked past the room, and the man had told the aide to have “that young lion” come back. “I am Simon and I lend money,” the man said as Caesar stood in the doorway. “I will be your best friend, but not for free. Tell your friends.” “You grew up in a lab, too, Sylvia?”Buy the print » He worked as many hours as they would allow him at the restaurant, Chowing Down. The remainder of the time, he went to movies until the shows closed and then sat in Franklin Park, at Fourteenth and K, in good weather and bad. He was there until sleep beckoned, sometimes as late as two in the morning. No one bothered him. He had killed two men, and the world, especially the bad part of it, sensed that and left him alone. He knew no one, and he wanted no one to know him. The friends he had had before Lorton seemed to have been swept off the face of the earth. On the penultimate day of his time at Lorton, he had awoken terrified and thought that if they gave him a choice he might well stay. He might find a life and a career at Lorton. He had sex only with his right hand, and that was not very often. He began to believe, in his first days out of prison, that men and women were now speaking a new language, and that he would never learn it. His lack of confidence extended even to whores, and this was a man who had been with more women than he had fingers and toes. He began to think that a whore had the power to crush a man’s soul. “What kinda language you speakin, honey? Talk English if you want some.” He was thirty-seven when he got free. He came in from the park at two-forty-five one morning and went quickly by Simon’s door, but the moneylender called him back. Caesar stood in the doorway. He had been in the warren for less than two months. The aide was cooking, standing with her back to Caesar in a crisp green uniform and sensible black shoes. She was stirring first one pot on the stove and then another. People on the color television were laughing. “Been out on the town, I see,” Simon began. “Hope you got enough poontang to last you till next time.” “I gotta be goin,” Caesar said. He had begun to think that he might be able to kill the man and find a way to get into the safe. The question was whether he should kill the aide as well. “Don’t blow off your friends that way,” Simon said. Then, for some reason, he started telling Caesar about their neighbors in that complex. That was how Caesar first learned about an “Yvonny,” whom he had yet to see. He would not know that she was the Yvonne he had known long ago until the second time he passed her in the hall. “Now, our sweet Yvonny, she ain’t nothin but an old girl.” Old girls were whores, young or old, who had been battered so much by the world that they had only the faintest wisp of life left; not many of them had hearts of gold. “But you could probably have her for free,” Simon said, and he pointed to Caesar’s right, where Yvonne’s room was. There was always a small lump under the covers beside Simon in the bed, and Caesar suspected that it was a gun. That was a problem, but he might be able to leap to the bed and kill the man with one blow of a club before he could pull it out. What would the aide do? “I’ve had her myself,” Simon said, “so I can only recommend it in a pinch.” “Later, man,” Caesar said, and he stepped away. The usual way to his room was to the right as soon as he entered the main door, but that morning he walked straight ahead and within a few feet was passing Yvonne’s door. It was slightly ajar, and he heard music from a radio. The aide might even be willing to help him rob the moneylender if he could talk to her alone beforehand. He might not know the language men and women were speaking now, but the language of money had not changed. It was a cousin who told his brother where to find him. That cousin, Nora Maywell, was the manager of a nearby bank, at Twelfth and F Streets, and she first saw Caesar as he bused tables at Chowing Down, where she had gone with colleagues for lunch. She came in day after day to make certain that he was indeed Caesar, for she had not seen him in more than twenty years. But there was no mistaking the man, who looked like her uncle. Caesar was five years older than Nora. She had gone through much of her childhood hoping that she would grow up to marry him. Had he paid much attention to her in all those years before he disappeared, he still would not have recognized her—she was older, to be sure, but life had been extraordinarily kind to Nora and she was now a queen compared with the dirt-poor peasant she had once been. Caesar’s brother came in three weeks after Nora first saw him. The brother, Alonzo, ate alone, paid his bill, then went over to Caesar and smiled. “It’s good to see you,” he said. Caesar simply nodded and walked away with the tub of dirty dishes. The brother stood shaking for a few moments, then turned and made his unsteady way out the door. He was a corporate attorney, making nine times what his father, at fifty-seven, was making, and he came back for many days. On the eighth day, he went to Caesar, who was busing in a far corner of the restaurant. It was now early September and Caesar had been out of prison for three months and five days. “I will keep coming until you speak to me,” the brother said. Caesar looked at him for a long time. The lunch hours were ending, so the manager would have no reason to shout at him. Only two days before, he had seen Yvonne in the hall for the second time. It had been afternoon and the dead light bulb in the hall had been replaced since the first time he had passed her. He recognized her, but everything in her eyes and body told him that she did not know him. That would never change. And, because he knew who she was, he nodded to his brother and within minutes they were out the door and around the corner to the alley. Caesar lit a cigarette right away. The brother’s gray suit had cost $1,865.98. Caesar’s apron was filthy. It was his seventh cigarette of the afternoon. When it wasn’t in his mouth, the cigarette was at his side, and as he raised it up and down to his mouth, inhaled, and flicked ashes, his hand never shook. “Do you know how much I want to put my arms around you?” Alonzo said. “I think we should put an end to all this shit right now so we can get on with our lives,” Caesar said. “I don’t wanna see you or anyone else in your family from now until the day I die. You should understand that, Mister, so you can do somethin else with your time. You a customer, so I won’t do what I would do to somebody who ain’t a customer.” The brother said, “I’ll admit to whatever I may have done to you. I will, Caesar. I will.” In fact, his brother had never done anything to him, and neither had his sister. The war had always been between Caesar and their father, but Caesar, over time, had come to see his siblings as the father’s allies. “But come to see me and Joanie, one time only, and if you don’t want to see us again then we’ll accept that. I’ll never come into your restaurant again.” There was still more of the cigarette, but Caesar looked at it and then dropped it to the ground and stepped on it. He looked at his cheap watch. Men in prison would have killed for what was left of that smoke. “I gotta be goin, Mister.” “We are family, Caesar. If you don’t want to see Joanie and me for your sake, for our sakes, then do it for Mama.” “My mama’s dead, and she been dead for a lotta years.” He walked toward the street. “I know she’s dead! I know she’s dead! I just put flowers on her grave on Sunday. And on three Sundays before that. And five weeks before that. I know my mother’s dead.” Caesar stopped. It was one thing for him to throw out a quick statement about a dead mother, as he had done many times over the years. A man could say the words so often that they became just another meaningless part of his makeup. The pain was no longer there as it had been those first times he had spoken them, when his mother was still new to her grave. The words were one thing, but a grave was a different matter, a different fact. The grave was out there, to be seen and touched, and a man, a son, could go to that spot of earth and remember all over again how much she had loved him, how she had stood in her apron in the doorway of a clean and beautiful home and welcomed him back from school. He could go to the grave and read her name and die a bit, because it would feel as if she had left him only last week. Caesar turned around. “You and your people must leave me alone, Mister.” “Then we will,” the brother said. “We will leave you alone. Come to one dinner. A Sunday dinner. Fried chicken. The works. Then we’ll never bother you again. No one but Joanie and our families. No one else.” Those last words were to assure Caesar that he would not have to see their father. Caesar wanted another cigarette, but the meeting had already gone on long enough. Yvonne had not said anything that second time, when he said “Hello.” She had simply nodded and walked around him in the hall. The third time they were also passing in the hall, and he spoke again, and she stepped to the side to pass and then turned and asked if he had any smokes she could borrow. He said he had some in his room, and she told him to go get them and pointed to her room. Her room was a third larger than his. It had an icebox, a bed, a dresser with a mirror over it, a small table next to the bed, a chair just beside the door, and not much else. The bed made a T with the one window, which faced the windowless wall of the apartment building next door. The beautiful blue-and-yellow curtains at the window should have been somewhere else, in a place that could appreciate them. He had no expectations. He wanted nothing. It was just good to see a person from a special time in his life, and it was even better that he had loved her once and she had loved him. He stood in the doorway with the cigarettes. Dressed in a faded purple robe, she was looking in the icebox when he returned. She closed the icebox door and looked at him. He walked over, and she took the unopened pack of cigarettes from his outstretched hand. He stood there. “Well, sit the fuck down before you make the place look poor.” He sat in the chair by the door, and she sat on the bed and lit the first cigarette. She was sideways to him. It was only after the fifth drag on the cigarette that she spoke. “If you think you gonna get some pussy, you are sorely mistaken. I ain’t givin out shit. Free can kill you.” “I don’t want nothin.” “ ‘I don’t want nothin. I don’t want nothin.’ ” She dropped ashes into an empty tomato-soup can on the table by the bed. “Mister, we all want somethin, and the sooner people like you stand up and stop the bullshit, then the world can start bein a better place. It’s the bullshitters who keep the world from bein a better place.” Together, they had rented a little house in Northeast and had been planning to have a child once they had been there two years. The night he came home and found her sitting in the dark and talking about never trusting happiness, they had been there a year and a half. Two months later, she was gone. For the next three months, as he looked for her, he stayed there and continued to make it the kind of place that a woman would want to come home to. “My own mother was the first bullshitter I knew,” she continued. “That’s how I know it don’t work. People should stand up and say, ‘I wish you were dead,’ or ‘I want your pussy,’ or ‘I want all the money in your pocket.’ When we stop lyin, the world will start bein heaven.” He had been a thief and a robber and a drug pusher before he met her, and he went back to all that after the three months, not because he was heartbroken, though he was, but because it was such an easy thing to do. He was smart enough to know that he could not blame Yvonne, and he never did. The murders of Percy “Golden Boy” Weymouth and Antwoine Stoddard were still years away. He stayed that day for more than an hour, until she told him that she had now paid for the cigarettes. Over the next two weeks, as he got closer to the dinner with his brother and sister, he would take her cigarettes and food and tell her from the start that they were free. He was never to know how she paid the rent. By the fourth day of bringing her things, she began to believe that he wanted nothing. He always sat in the chair by the door. Her words never changed, and it never mattered to him. The only thanks he got was the advice that the world should stop being a bullshitter. On the day of the dinner, he found that the days of sitting with Yvonne had given him a strength he had not had when he had said yes to his brother. He had Alonzo pick him up in front of Chowing Down, because he felt that if they knew where he lived they would find a way to stay in his life. At his sister’s house, just off Sixteenth Street, Northwest, in an area of well-to-do black people some called the Gold Coast, they welcomed him, Joanie keeping her arms around him for more than a minute, crying. Then they offered him a glass of wine. He had not touched alcohol since before prison. They sat him on a dark-green couch in the living room, which was the size of ten prison cells. Before he had taken three sips of the wine, he felt good enough not to care that the girl and the boy, his sister’s children, wanted to be in his lap. They were the first children he had been around in more than ten years. The girl had been calling him Uncle since he entered the house. Throughout dinner, which was served by his sister’s maid, and during the rest of the evening, he said as little as possible to the adults—his sister and brother and their spouses—but concentrated on the kids, because he thought he knew their hearts. The grownups did not pepper him with questions and were just grateful that he was there. Toward the end of the meal, he had a fourth glass of wine, and that was when he told his niece that she looked like his mother and the girl blushed, because she knew how beautiful her grandmother had been. “I find that I tend to smoke less if I light them with road flares.”Buy the print » At the end, as Caesar stood in the doorway preparing to leave, his brother said that he had made this a wonderful year. His brother’s eyes teared up and he wanted to hug Caesar, but Caesar, without smiling, simply extended his hand. The last thing his brother said to him was “Even if you go away not wanting to see us again, know that Daddy loves you. It is the one giant truth in the world. He’s a different man, Caesar. I think he loves you more than us because he never knew what happened to you. That may be why he never remarried.” The issue of what Caesar had been doing for twenty-one years never came up. His sister, with her children in the back seat, drove him home. In front of his building, he and Joanie said goodbye and she kissed his cheek and, as an afterthought, he, a new uncle and with the wine saying, Now, that wasn’t so bad, reached back to give a playful tug on the children’s feet, but the sleeping boy was too far away and the girl, laughing, wiggled out of his reach. He said to his niece, “Good night, young lady,” and she said no, that she was not a lady but a little girl. Again, he reached unsuccessfully for her feet. When he turned back, his sister had a look of such horror and disgust that he felt he had been stabbed. He knew right away what she was thinking, that he was out to cop a feel on a child. He managed a goodbye and got out of the car. “Call me,” she said before he closed the car door, but the words lacked the feeling of all the previous ones of the evening. He said nothing. Had he spoken the wrong language, as well as done the wrong thing? Did child molesters call little girls “ladies”? He knew he would never call his sister. Yes, he had been right to tear up the pictures and letters when he was in Lorton. He shut his eyes until the car was no more. He felt a pained rumbling throughout his system and, without thinking, he staggered away from his building toward Tenth Street. He could hear music coming from an apartment on his side of N Street. He had taught his sister how to ride a bike, how to get over her fear of falling and hurting herself. Now, in her eyes, he was no more than an animal capable of hurting a child. They killed men in prison for being that kind of monster. Whatever avuncular love for the children had begun growing in just those few hours now seeped away. He leaned over into the grass at the side of the apartment building and vomited. He wiped his mouth with the back of his hand. “I’ll fall, Caesar,” his sister had said in her first weeks of learning how to ride a bicycle. “Why would I let that happen?” He ignored the aide when she told him that the moneylender wanted to talk to him. He went straight ahead, toward Yvonne’s room, though he had no intention of seeing her. Her door was open enough for him to see a good part of the room, but he simply turned toward his own room. His shadow, cast by her light behind him, was thin and went along the floor and up the wall, and it was seeing the shadow that made him turn around. After noting that the bathroom next to her room was empty, he called softly to her from the doorway and then called three times more before he gave the door a gentle push with his finger. The door had not opened all the way when he saw her half on the bed and half off. Drunk, he thought. He went to her, intending to put her full on the bed. But death can twist the body in a way life never does, and that was what it had done to hers. He knew death. Her face was pressed into the bed, at a crooked angle that would have been uncomfortable for any living person. One leg was bunched under her, and the other was extended behind her, but both seemed not part of her body, awkwardly on their own, as if someone could just pick them up and walk away. He whispered her name. He sat down beside her, ignoring the vomit that spilled out of her mouth and over the side of the bed. He moved her head so that it rested on one side. He thought at first that someone had done this to her, but he saw money on the dresser and felt the quiet throughout the room that signalled the end of it all, and he knew that the victim and the perpetrator were one and the same. He screwed the top on the empty whiskey bottle near her extended leg. He placed her body on the bed and covered her with a sheet and a blanket. Someone would find her in the morning. He stood at the door, preparing to turn out the light and leave, thinking this was how the world would find her. He had once known her as a clean woman who would not steal so much as a needle. A woman with a well-kept house. She had been loved. But that was not what they would see in the morning. He set about putting a few things back in place, hanging up clothes that were lying over the chair and on the bed, straightening the lampshade, picking up newspapers and everything else on the floor. But, when he was done, it did not seem enough. He went to his room and tore up two shirts to make dust rags. He started in a corner at the foot of her bed, at a table where she kept her brush and comb and makeup and other lady things. When he had dusted the table and everything on it, he put an order to what was there, just as if she would be using them in the morning. Then he began dusting and cleaning clockwise around the room, and by midnight he was not even half done and the shirts were dirty with all the work, and he went back to his room for two more. By three, he was cutting up his pants for rags. After he had cleaned and dusted the room, he put an order to it all, as he had done with the things on the table—the dishes and food in mouseproof cannisters on the table beside the icebox, the two framed posters of mountains on the wall that were tilting to the left, the five photographs of unknown children on the bureau. When that work was done, he took a pail and a mop from her closet. Mice had made a bed in the mop, and he had to brush them off and away. He filled the pail with water from the bathroom and soap powder from under the table beside the icebox. After the floor had been mopped, he stood in the doorway as it dried and listened to the mice in the walls, listened to them scurrying in the closet. At about four, the room was done and Yvonne lay covered in her unmade bed. He went to the door, ready to leave, and was once more unable to move. The whole world was silent except the mice in the walls. He knelt at the bed and touched Yvonne’s shoulder. On a Tuesday morning, a school day, he had come upon his father kneeling at his bed, Caesar’s mother growing cold in that bed. His father was crying, and when Caesar went to him his father crushed Caesar to him and took the boy’s breath away. It was Caesar’s brother who had said they should call someone, but their father said, “No, no, just one minute more, just one more minute,” as if in that next minute God would reconsider and send his wife back. And Caesar had said, “Yes, just one minute more.” The one giant truth . . . , his brother had said. Caesar changed the bed clothing and undressed Yvonne. He got one of her large pots and filled it with warm water from the bathroom and poured into the water cologne of his own that he never used and bath-oil beads he found in a battered container in a corner beside her dresser. The beads refused to dissolve, and he had to crush them in his hands. He bathed her, cleaned out her mouth. He got a green dress from the closet, and underwear and stockings from the dresser, put them on her, and pinned a rusty cameo on the dress over her heart. He combed and brushed her hair, put barrettes in it after he sweetened it with the rest of the cologne, and laid her head in the center of the pillow now covered with one of his clean cases. He gave her no shoes and he did not cover her up, just left her on top of the made-up bed. The room with the dead woman was as clean and as beautiful as Caesar could manage at that time in his life. It was after six in the morning, and the world was lighting up and the birds had begun to chirp. Caesar shut off the ceiling light and turned out the lamp, held on to the chain switch as he listened to the beginnings of a new day. He opened the window that he had cleaned hours before, and right away a breeze came through. He put a hand to the wind, enjoying the coolness, and one thing came to him: he was not a young man anymore. He sat on his bed smoking one cigarette after another. Before finding Yvonne dead, he had thought he would go and live in Baltimore and hook up with a vicious crew he had known a long time ago. Wasn’t that what child molesters did? Now, the only thing he knew about the rest of his life was that he did not want to wash dishes and bus tables anymore. At about nine-thirty, he put just about all he owned and the two bags of trash from Yvonne’s room in the bin in the kitchen. He knocked at the door of the woman in the room next to his. Her son opened the door, and Caesar asked for his mother. He gave her the hundred and forty-seven dollars he had found in Yvonne’s room, along with his radio and tiny black-and-white television. He told her to look in on Yvonne before long and then said he would see her later, which was perhaps the softest lie of his adult life. On his way out of the warren of rooms, Simon called to him. “You comin back soon, young lion?” he asked. Caesar nodded. “Well, why don’t you bring me back a bottle of rum? Woke up with a taste for it this mornin.” Caesar nodded. “Was that you in there with Yvonny last night?” Simon said as he got the money from atop the safe beside his bed. “Quite a party, huh?” Caesar said nothing. Simon gave the money to the aide, and she handed Caesar ten dollars and a quarter. “Right down to the penny,” Simon said. “Give you a tip when you get back.” “I won’t be long,” Caesar said. Simon must have realized that was a lie, because before Caesar went out the door he said, in as sweet a voice as he was capable of, “I’ll be waitin.” He came out into the day. He did not know what he was going to do, aside from finding some legit way to pay for Yvonne’s funeral. The D.C. government people would take her away, but he knew where he could find and claim her before they put her in potter’s field. He put the bills in his pocket and looked down at the quarter in the palm of his hand. It was a rather old one, 1967, but shiny enough. Life had been kind to it. He went carefully down the steps in front of the building and stood on the sidewalk. The world was going about its business, and it came to him, as it might to a man who had been momentarily knocked senseless after a punch to the face, that he was of that world. To the left was Ninth Street and all the rest of N Street, Immaculate Conception Catholic Church at Eighth, the bank at the corner of Seventh. He flipped the coin. To his right was Tenth Street, and down Tenth were stores and the house where Abraham Lincoln had died and all the white people’s precious monuments. Up Tenth and a block to Eleventh and Q Streets was once a High’s store where, when Caesar was a boy, a pint of cherry-vanilla ice cream cost twenty-five cents, and farther down Tenth was French Street, with a two-story house with his mother’s doilies and a foot-long porcelain black puppy just inside the front door. A puppy his mother had bought for his father in the third year of their marriage. A puppy that for thirty-five years had been patiently waiting each working day for Caesar’s father to return from work. The one giant truth . . . Just one minute more. He caught the quarter and slapped it on the back of his hand. He had already decided that George Washington’s profile would mean going toward Tenth Street, and that was what he did once he uncovered the coin. At the corner of Tenth and N, he stopped and considered the quarter again. Down Tenth was Lincoln’s death house. Up Tenth was the house where he had been a boy, and where the puppy was waiting for his father. A girl at the corner was messing with her bicycle, putting playing cards in the spokes, checking the tires. She watched Caesar as he flipped the quarter. He missed it and the coin fell to the ground, and he decided that that one would not count. The girl had once seen her aunt juggle six coins, first warming up with the flip of a single one and advancing to the juggling of three before finishing with six. It had been quite a show. The aunt had shown the six pieces to the girl—they had all been old and heavy one-dollar silver coins, huge monster things, which nobody made anymore. The girl thought she might now see a reprise of that event. Caesar flipped the quarter. The girl’s heart paused. The man’s heart paused. The coin reached its apex and then it fell. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Abandoner	In 1979, just a month before the one-child policy was introduced, the wife of the vice-chairman of the Municipal Treasury Board gave birth to a retarded daughter, Miaomiao. After the wife gave birth to a second daughter, who was normal, seven years later, the vice-chairman could often be spotted carrying Miaomiao down the street with a furtive look in his eye. His downturned mouth and sunken cheeks spoke of despair. Miaomiao’s expression was generally calm, but slightly bewildered. Neighbors remarked on how the pair of them seemed always to be on their way somewhere. Since the vice-chairman was blood type A and had been born in the Year of the Rabbit, he was both stubborn and introverted. When he was twenty, a cabbage-faced old woman at the grain shop had read the lines on his palm and told him that he would never have a son. She had not told him, however, that his first daughter would be born retarded, or that the government was planning to institute a one-child policy. If he had known at the time how the future would unfold, he would have told his wife to have an abortion the moment she found out that she was pregnant. After the birth of his second daughter, he locked himself in his room for a week and drank his way through four bottles of rice wine. Then he shaved, dressed, and went looking for a lame man called Zeng, to have his fortune read again. For six yuan, Zeng predicted that at forty-eight the vice-chairman would be promoted to a more senior position; at forty-nine, a disaster would befall him, but if he wore a red string around his waist he would escape with his life; at fifty, a gentleman would travel from the southwest and bring him good luck (the vice-chairman looked into his friends and relatives in the southwest and discovered that he had an uncle who was an ex-Kuomintang general and who was now living with a guerrilla force in Burma, though the family hadn’t heard from him in thirty years); at fifty-seven, he would lose his mother, and his wife would die of lung disease; at sixty, he would meet a young widow with blood type A who was born in the Year of the Sheep, and she would marry him and give him a third daughter. Death was destined to strike him in his sixty-third year. He asked Zeng if there was any way that he could prolong his life by a few years—just two more years would do—but the fortune-teller insisted that it was impossible to alter the course of fate. The vice-chairman was, in fact, more concerned about the lack of a son to carry on his family line than he was about the brevity of his own life. He pushed the thought of the young widow to the back of his mind and focussed all his attention on producing an heir. Since Miaomiao’s chromosomal abnormality had left her both mentally and physically handicapped, his wife’s work unit had made an exception to the one-child policy and granted her a quota of two children, but they would never allow her to try for a third. Indeed, as soon as she had given birth to the second daughter, a man from the family-planning office turned up and inserted a coil into her uterus. The only way that she’d be able to procure another pregnancy permit now was if one of her children happened to disappear. As things stood, the vice-chairman decided, his only hope lay in getting rid of Miaomiao. So the vice-chairman embarked on a battle against his fate. When his second daughter was just two weeks old, he took Miaomiao in his arms and set off for a public park, planning to abandon her there. His wife shed a few tears before he left, but was too weak to protest. In the evening he returned, still holding Miaomiao in his arms. He told his wife that he had left her sitting on a bench all afternoon and had watched from a distance, but no one had tried to take her away. After three more failed attempts to abandon his daughter, he took a day off work, hoping to finish the job properly. Miaomiao had a small flat head covered with thin downy hair, a broad and wrinkled forehead, tadpole-like eyes set deep into sallow sockets, a flat nose, and large nostrils that flared with each intake of breath. Her mouth was always open; saliva and scraps of food would fall from it, drip down her small chin, and collect in the creases of her thick neck. Her existence caused him only trouble. During her seven years of life, she had acquired a few skills. She knew to cry out when she felt the need to relieve herself, and had learned not to refuse food or medicine. After a few more of her father’s attempts to get rid of her, she also developed a fear of being removed from the family’s dank room and taken out into the fresh air. Whenever her father took her in his arms and carried her to a place where an open expanse of sky could be seen, her hair stood on end, and her jaw clenched so hard that it was impossible to wrench it open. She had spent a whole weekend alone in the woods, a night on a stone bench, six days at a police station in the countryside, and forty-eight hours on a train bound for the capital. As each of these unhappy experiences began, she had suddenly lost sight of her father and found herself alone. But in the end she always managed to be rescued and returned safely to the dark room that smelled of mud and rotten cabbage. The vice-chairman had no idea whether he would ever succeed in abandoning Miaomiao, but he was determined to continue his war against fate. For the sake of his future son, for the sake of the successful fertilization of his wife’s next egg cell, he continued to pursue his plan. He told himself that the only reason he took care of Miaomiao now was to prepare for an opportunity to get rid of her. For Miaomiao, each journey she took into the outside world was an opportunity to prove the resilience of her life force. The vice-chairman had enrolled in the Party in 1958. During the Cultural Revolution, he’d joined a political cell that failed to keep up with the changing Maoist directives and was ousted by a rival cell. Fortunately, he had married an activist from the victorious cell, so he managed to escape persecution. He made love to his wife in their dark room in the workers’ block as bullets flew through the sky outside. Neither of them had much knowledge of sexual matters, other than the little they’d learned through the vocabulary of swearwords, so his wife didn’t become pregnant until their fourth year of marriage. The doctor told her that the child’s defects had been caused by excessive sexual activity during her pregnancy. Six months after embarking on his mission, the vice-chairman still had not managed to abandon Miaomiao. He resolved to focus more of his energy on the task and began to take his work less seriously. The fortune-teller had told him that he would succeed in getting rid of his daughter only if he was certain that some kindhearted person would take her home and look after her. He never abandoned her if he thought there was any risk that she might come to harm or starve to death. This failure was clearly linked to the year in which the vice-chairman was born. He was convinced that if he had been born in the Year of the Tiger or the Year of the Cock he would now be holding a baby son in his arms. Often, the vice-chairman took Miaomiao to the outskirts of town, hoping to abandon her in the open fields. He would lay her down beside a dirt track, then hide behind a bush and observe. Occasionally, passersby would stop next to Miaomiao and kick her in the shins to see if she was alive. Then they’d glance around and, when they were sure no one was looking, frisk her. If they found the envelope of cash that the vice-chairman had hidden in her pocket, they’d pull it out and sneak away with it. Some people even tried to take her clothes. Whenever this happened, the vice-chairman would run after the thief and snatch the clothes and cash from his hands. Then he would pick up Miaomiao and carry her to a different field. As the sun began to set and still no one had come to rescue her, he would stagger over to her, faint with hunger, take her in his arms, and carry her home. One day, the vice-chairman read an article about an orphanage in a neighboring town. The dormitories were clean and bright, the newspaper said, and there was a swing in the yard outside. Foreigners from six different countries had visited the orphanage to have their photographs taken with the happy children. The vice-chairman’s heart leapt when he read this news. “How wonderful!” he said to himself. “This is what Communism has given us! An orphanage run by the government—at last Miaomiao will have a home!” He took the next day off work and travelled to the town with Miaomiao. As he approached the gates of the orphanage, he stopped for a moment and rehearsed what he was going to say. He whispered to Miaomiao that she was not to reveal to anyone that he was her father—an unnecessary precaution, since he knew very well that she couldn’t speak a word. “Your mother is so busy with your little sister now,” he told her. “She doesn’t have time to look after you. You’ll be happy here. They’ll give you noodles every day, and candy, too. They’ll even teach you English. You’ll be much happier here than you are at home.” He wiped the saliva from her chin, carried her through the gates, and knocked on the door. The director of the orphanage opened it. She was a stern-looking woman, a few years younger than his wife. The vice-chairman deposited Miaomiao on the reception desk and claimed that he had found her alone on the street outside. “I asked everyone whom she belonged to, but no one knew,” he told the director, poker-faced. “A street vender told me that she was probably an orphan and I should hand her over to you.” The director peered into Miaomiao’s eyes. “You found her on the street, you say?” she asked. “We can’t be sure that she’s an orphan. Maybe she just got lost, or became separated from her parents. You should really take her to the public-security bureau.” The vice-chairman began to sweat. “I just wanted to perform a good deed,” he said. “I don’t know my way around this town. I’m here only for the day. And, besides, I have a train to catch.” He took out his train ticket and waved it in the air. The director let out a sigh and reluctantly agreed to take the child to the public-security bureau herself. The vice-chairman returned to the station. As he waited for his train, he was overcome with such joy that he ran to the food stall at the end of the platform and treated himself to a plate of pigs’ ears and two glasses of warm rice wine. The next day, he sat at his desk gazing out of the window, planning the letter that he would write to announce the news of Miaomiao’s disappearance, and then the application that he and his wife would file for another birth permit. Just as he was imagining his future son suckling at his wife’s breast, the telephone rang. It was the chief of police in the neighboring town asking him to come and collect Miaomiao. The following morning, he took another day off work, much to his leader’s consternation, as it meant missing the department’s weekly Party meeting, and set off to bring Miaomiao home. The vice-chairman wondered how the police had managed to track him down. “The eyes of the crowd see everything,” he muttered to himself. He realized that to get rid of Miaomiao he would have to travel farther afield. On Miaomiao’s eighth birthday, the vice-chairman gave her a plastic coat to protect her from the rain. After a birthday meal of fried noodles, he prepared for their next journey. First, he put on his own waterproof jacket and some new walking boots. Then he dropped a sleeping pill into Miaomiao’s mouth. He was afraid to abandon her while she was awake, lest she choke on her tears, or her cries attract a pack of wolves. Although the vice-chairman’s wife had at first contested his plan, he had slowly won her over, and she now supported him wholeheartedly. Before he left, she always slipped a flask of hot tea and a tin of dried beef into his rucksack. His determination and vigor impressed her. She marvelled at how young he looked in his elegant new gear. Her only wish now was to make her husband happy and give him the male heir he longed for. A month earlier, she herself had paid the cabbage-faced old woman to arrange the sale of Miaomiao to an infertile couple, but as soon as the couple discovered that the child was retarded they’d brought her back and demanded a refund. After this setback, the wife contemplated breaking the rules and trying right away for a third child. She had heard of a private clinic in the countryside that removed coils for thirty yuan. But when she saw the poster above the grain shop that said “One child too many: a lifetime of punishments!” her courage failed her. Still, Miaomiao refused to disappear. She suffered accident after accident, but always managed to survive unscathed. Before she had taken her first step, she had survived two car crashes and a fall from a third-story window. She fell out of her bed onto the concrete floor almost every night without suffering any serious injury. One day, the vice-chairman left her on a quiet path beside a canal. A few minutes after he had put her down, a tractor appeared from nowhere and rolled right over her. The wheels scraped past her head and splattered her face with mud. When the vice-chairman rushed over, he found her unharmed. The tires had passed on either side of her. When the neighbors heard this story, they said that only a child who was blessed could survive such a thing, and they predicted that she would bring the family good fortune and prosperity. So for an entire month the vice-chairman gave up his attempts to get rid of Miaomiao and waited for his fortunes to turn. But nothing changed, and the vice-chairman again became convinced that the future the lame fortune-teller Zeng had predicted for him was cast in stone. The likely termination of his family line weighed heavily on his mind. He knew that if his wife exceeded her birth quota of two children he would lose everything he had worked so hard to gain: his government job, his Party membership card, his room, his salary. A few months after his forty-eighth birthday, he was promoted to the post of chairman of the Municipal Treasury Board, just as Zeng had foretold. If Zeng’s other predictions proved to be correct, then the following year a calamity was destined to befall him. If he didn’t escape with his life, his family name would die with him. He decided that his only choice now was to retire from his new post and concentrate all his waking hours on the mission to abandon Miaomiao. The trouble was that each time he tried to get rid of Miaomiao he felt his attachment to her deepen. He had begun to enjoy the trips he took with her into the countryside. Having spent so much of his life tied to a desk, he loved to feel the wind in his hair and the sun on his face. He liked to put on his camping gear and sleep under the stars. His trips with Miaomiao had made him appreciate his life, and, in a way, he was grateful to her. For years, he had hoped that she would coöperate with his plans and disappear quietly from his life. But, as this hope had slowly diminished, she had become his only comforter and sympathizer—his closest friend. Though he put her in danger, she was the only person in this world who could forgive him. He began to pour out his heart to her, telling her about his problems with his wife, his concerns about world affairs, and the heartache he felt for all the pain he’d caused her. Knowing that she could say nothing in reply, he felt free to use even the foulest language in her presence. As he grew aware of the futility of his efforts, he gradually lost control of his thoughts. Each time he tried to abandon Miaomiao, he felt as though he were, in fact, abandoning himself, and the future that had been fated for him. Sometimes he felt that it was Miaomiao who was dragging him through the town, rather than the other way around. She, too, had learned a lot from these journeys. Each time she lay on her back in an empty field, cried in the arms of a stranger, or gazed up at her father’s tortured face, her knowledge of the world expanded. One evening, on the edge of a remote village, as the retired chairman collapsed on the ground from exhaustion, he seemed to hear Miaomiao say to him, “Over the past two years, I have had to assume the role of the abandoned child. I have gained my own identity, and through your struggles with me you have learned some lessons about life. A father can fool a retarded child, but a retarded child can also fool her father. I have given a pattern to your life, a rhythm. I have taught you things about yourself you would have preferred not to know. You must understand that your mission will destroy you in the end. In a deranged world, only the retarded can find happiness. I share none of your commitments or responsibilities. I care nothing about the past or the future, or whether your sperm will ever meet another egg cell. I am not even sure that I exist. If you were retarded like me, you would understand what I am saying. I wish you would give up this futile mission of yours. You’ve done your best for everyone. You have let neither me nor yourself down. There’s nothing more you can do.” As she spoke, her tears and saliva dropped onto her father’s chest. He was asleep now, his head resting against an adobe wall. The slogan above him read “Ten more graves are better than one crib!” That afternoon, after the retired chairman had failed yet again to abandon Miaomiao, a farmer in the village told him that no one there would want her. He said, “The family-planning officers are clamping down on us now. Everyone wants a son to help out in the fields. No one wants a daughter, especially not a retarded one. You’d be better off throwing her into the river. In this village, if you give birth to an unauthorized child, the doctors inject a saline solution into the baby’s head as soon as it’s born, and ten minutes later it’s dead.” As people’s lives became transformed by the country’s growing economic prosperity, they began to pay less attention to the retired chairman who spent his life abandoning his elder daughter and then retrieving her. But everyone knew who he was. Out of the corner of their eyes, they often caught sight of a man with freshly washed collar and cuffs (they could tell at a glance that he was a former government cadre) flitting past the municipal museum carrying a retarded child in his arms. He would cross the pedestrian overpass and make his way through the new urban district, heading not for the park by the water but for the open fields beyond. When the retired chairman reached his fifties, his energy waned and he could no longer carry his daughter to the fields. Instead, he would lay her down near the grain shop, her head pointing toward the southwest. Then he would squat behind a tree ten metres away, the red string around his waist dangling to the ground. Passersby noticed that as he squatted there the lines on his face seemed to disappear. He would wait for hours, as patient as a fisherman by a lake. But as soon as someone walked over and touched his “lost property” he would jump to his feet, charge over, and scoop Miaomiao up in his arms. In this town, he became the retarded child’s only protector. ♦ (Translated, from the Chinese, by Flora Drew.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Cat ‘N’ Mouse	The cat is chasing the mouse through the kitchen: between the blue chair legs, over the tabletop with its red-and-white checkered tablecloth that is already sliding in great waves, past the sugar bowl falling to the left and the cream jug falling to the right, over the blue chair back, down the chair legs, across the waxed and butter-yellow floor. The cat and the mouse lean backward and try to stop on the slippery wax, which shows their flawless reflections. Sparks shoot from their heels, but it’s much too late: the big door looms. The mouse crashes through, leaving a mouse-shaped hole. The cat crashes through, replacing the mouse-shaped hole with a larger, cat-shaped hole. In the living room, they race over the back of the couch, across the piano keys (delicate mouse tune, crash of cat chords), along the blue rug. The fleeing mouse snatches a glance over his shoulder, and when he looks forward again he sees the floor lamp coming closer and closer. Impossible to stop—at the last moment, he splits in half and rejoins himself on the other side. Behind him the rushing cat fails to split in half and crashes into the lamp: his head and body push the brass pole into the shape of a trombone. For a moment, the cat hangs sideways there, his stiff legs shaking like the clapper of a bell. Then he pulls free and rushes after the mouse, who turns and darts into a mousehole in the baseboard. The cat crashes into the wall and folds up like an accordion. Slowly, he unfolds, emitting accordion music. He lies on the floor with his chin on his upraised paw, one eyebrow lifted high in disgust, the claws of his other forepaw tapping the floorboards. A small piece of plaster drops on his head. He raises an outraged eye. A framed painting falls heavily on his head, which plunges out of sight between his shoulders. The painting shows a green tree with bright-red apples. The cat’s head struggles to rise, then pops up with the sound of a yanked cork, lifting the picture. Apples fall from the tree and land with a thump on the grass. The cat shudders, winces. A final apple falls. Slowly it rolls toward the frame, drops over the edge, and lands on the cat’s head. In the cat’s eyes, cash registers ring up “No Sale.” The mouse, dressed in a bathrobe and slippers, is sitting in his plump armchair, reading a book. He is tall and slim. His feet rest on a hassock, and a pair of spectacles rest on the end of his long, whiskered nose. Yellow light from a table lamp pours onto the book and dimly illuminates the cozy brown room. On the wall hang a tilted sampler bearing the words “Home Sweet Home,” an oval photograph of the mouse’s mother with her gray hair in a bun, and a reproduction of Seurat’s “Sunday Afternoon” in which all the figures are mice. Near the armchair is a bookcase filled with books, with several titles visible: “Martin Cheddarwit,” Gouda’s “Faust,” “The Memoirs of Anthony Edam,” “A History of the Medicheese,” the sonnets of Shakespaw. As the mouse reads his book, he reaches without looking toward a dish on the table. The dish is empty: his fingers tap about inside it. The mouse rises and goes over to the cupboard, which is empty except for a tin box with the word “Cheese” on it. He opens the box and turns it upside down. Into his palm drops a single toothpick. He gives it a melancholy look. Shaking his head, he returns to his chair and takes up his book. In a bubble above his head a picture appears: He is seated at a long table covered with a white tablecloth. He is holding a fork upright in one fist and a knife upright in the other. A mouse butler dressed in tails sets before him a piece of cheese the size of a wedding cake. From the mousehole emerges a red telescope. The lens looks to the left, then to the right. A hand issues from the end of the telescope and beckons the mouse forward. The mouse steps from the mousehole, collapses the telescope, and thrusts it into his bathrobe pocket. In the moonlit room, he tiptoes carefully, lifting his legs very high, over to the base of the armchair. He dives under the chair and peeks out through the fringe. He emerges from beneath the armchair, slinks over to the couch, and dives under. He peeks out through the fringe. He emerges from beneath the couch and approaches the slightly open kitchen door. He stands flat against the doorjamb, facing the living room, his eyes darting left and right. One leg tiptoes delicately around the jamb. His stretched body snaps after it like a rubber band. In the kitchen, he creeps to a moonlit chair, stands pressed against a chair leg, begins to climb. His nose rises over the tabletop: he sees a cream pitcher, a gleaming knife, a looming pepper mill. On a breadboard sits a wedge of cheese. The mouse, hunching his shoulders, tiptoes up to the cheese. From a pocket of his robe he removes a white handkerchief that he ties around his neck. He bends over the cheese, half closing his eyes, as if he were sniffing a flower. With a crashing sound, the cat springs onto the table. As he chases the mouse, the tablecloth bunches in waves, the sugar bowl topples, and waterfalls of sugar spill to the floor. An olive from a fallen cocktail glass rolls across the table, knocking into a cup, a saltshaker, a trivet: the objects light up and cause bells to ring, as in a pinball machine. On the floor, a brigade of ants is gathering the sugar: one ant catches the falling grains in a bucket, which he dumps into the bucket of a second ant, who dumps the sugar into the bucket of a third ant, all the way across the room, until the last ant dumps it into a waiting truck. The cat chases the mouse over the blue chair back, down the chair legs, across the waxed floor. Both lean backward and try to stop as the big door comes closer and closer. The mouse is sitting in his armchair with his chin in his hand, looking off into the distance with a melancholy expression. He is thoughtful by temperament, and he is distressed at the necessity of interrupting his meditations for the daily search for food. The search is wearying and absurd in itself, but is made unbearable by the presence of the brutish cat. The mouse’s disdain for the cat is precise and abundant: he loathes the soft, heavy paws with their hidden hooks, the glinting teeth, the hot, fish-stinking breath. At the same time, he confesses to himself a secret admiration for the cat’s coarse energy and simplicity. It appears that the cat has no other aim in life than to catch the mouse. Although the faculty of astonishment is not highly developed in the mouse, he is constantly astonished by the cat’s unremitting enmity. This makes the cat dangerous, despite his stupidity, for the mouse recognizes that he himself has long periods when the cat fades entirely from his mind. Moreover, despite the fundamental simplicity of the cat’s nature, it remains true that the cat is cunning: he plots tirelessly against the mouse, and his ludicrous wiles require in the mouse an alert attention that he would prefer not to give. The mouse is aware of the temptation of indifference; he must continually exert himself to be wary. He feels that he is exhausting his nerves and harming his spirit by attending to the cat; at the same time, he realizes that his attention is at best imperfect, and that the cat is thinking uninterruptedly, with boundless energy, of him. If only the mouse could stay in his hole, he would be happy, but he cannot stay in his hole, because of the need to find cheese. It is not a situation calculated to produce the peace of mind conducive to contemplation. The cat is standing in front of the mousehole with a hammer in one hand and a saw in the other. Beside him rests a pile of yellow boards and a big bag of nails. He begins furiously hammering and sawing, moving across the room in a cloud of dust that conceals him. Suddenly, the dust clears and the cat beholds his work: a long, twisting pathway that begins at the mousehole and passes under the couch, over the back of the armchair, across the piano, through the kitchen door, and onto the kitchen table. On the tablecloth, at the end of the pathway, is a large mousetrap on which sits a lump of cheese. The cat tiptoes over to the refrigerator, vanishes behind it, and slyly thrusts out his head: his eyes dart left and right. There is the sound of a bicycle bell: ring ring. A moment later, the mouse appears, pedalling fiercely. He speeds from the end of the pathway onto the table. As he screeches to a stop, the round wheels stretch out of shape and then become round again. The mouse is wearing riding goggles, a riding cap, and gloves. He leans his bicycle against the sugar bowl, steps over to the mousetrap, and looks at it with interest. He steps onto the mousetrap, sits down on the brass bar, and puts on a white bib. From a pocket of his leather jacket he removes a knife and fork. He eats the cheese swiftly. After his meal, he replaces the knife and fork in his pocket and begins to play on the mousetrap. He swings on a high bar, hangs upside down by his legs, walks the parallel bars, performs gymnastic stunts. Then he climbs onto his bicycle and disappears along the pathway, ringing his bell. The cat emerges from behind the refrigerator and springs onto the table beside the mousetrap. He frowns down at the trap. From the top of his head he plucks a single hair: it comes loose with the sound of a snapping violin string. Slowly, he lowers the hair toward the mousetrap. The hair touches the spring. The mousetrap remains motionless. He presses the spring with a spoon. The mousetrap remains motionless. He bangs the spring with a sledgehammer. The mousetrap remains motionless. He looks at the trap with rage. Cautiously, he reaches out a single toe. The mousetrap springs shut with the sound of a slammed iron door. The cat hops about the table holding his trapped foot as the toe swells to the size of a light bulb, bright red. The cat enters on the left, disguised as a mouse. He is wearing a blond wig, a nose mask, and a tight black dress slit to the thigh. He has high and very round breasts, a tiny waist, and round, rolling hips. His lips are bright red, and his black lashes are so tightly curled that when he blinks his eyes the lashes roll out and snap back like window shades. He walks slowly and seductively, resting one hand on a hip and one hand on his blond hair. The mouse is standing in the mousehole, leaning against one side with his hands in his pockets. His eyes protrude from their sockets in the shape of telescopes. In the lens of each telescope is a thumping heart. Slowly, as if mesmerized, the mouse sleepwalks into the room. The cat places a needle on a record, and rumba music begins to play. The cat dances with his hands clasped behind his neck, thrusting out each hip, fluttering his long lashes, turning to face the other way: in the tight black dress, his twitching backside is shaped like the ace of spades. The mouse faces the cat and begins to dance. They stride back and forth across the room, wriggling and kicking in step. As they dance, the cat’s wig comes loose, revealing one cat ear. The cat dances over to a bearskin rug and lies down on his side. He closes his long-lashed eyes and purses his red, red lips. The mouse steps up to the cat. He reaches into his pocket, removes a cigar, and places it between the big red lips. The cat’s eyes open. They look down at the cigar, look up, and look down again. The cat removes the cigar and stares at it. The cigar explodes. When the smoke clears, the cat’s face is black. He gives a strained, very white smile. Many small lines appear in his teeth. The teeth crack into little pieces and fall out. The cat is lying on his back in his basket in the kitchen. His hands are clasped behind his head, his left knee is raised, and his right ankle rests sideways on the raised knee. He is filled with rage at the thought of the mouse, who he knows despises him. He would like to tear the mouse to pieces, to roast him over a fire, to plunge him into a pan of burning butter. He understands that his rage is not the rage of hunger and he wonders whether the mouse himself is responsible for evoking this savagery, which burns in his chest like indigestion. He despises the mouse’s physical delicacy, his weak arms as thin as the teeth of combs, his frail, crushable skull, his fondness for books and solitude. At the same time, he is irritably aware that he admires the mouse’s elegance, his air of culture and languor, his easy self-assurance. Why is he always reading? In a sense, the mouse intimidates the cat: in his presence, the cat feels clumsy and foolish. He thinks obsessively about the mouse and suspects with rage that the mouse frequently does not think about him at all, there in his brown room. If the mouse was less indifferent, would he burn with such hatred? Might they learn to live peacefully together in the same house? Would he be released from this pain of outrage in his heart? The mouse is standing at his workbench, curling the eyelashes of a mechanical cat. Her long black hair is as shiny as licorice; her lips look like licked candy. She is wearing a tight red dress, black fishnet stockings, and red high heels. The mouse stands the mechanical cat on her feet, unzips the back of her dress, and winds a big key. He zips up the dress and aims her toward the mousehole. In the living room, the mechanical cat struts slowly back and forth; her pointy breasts stick out like party hats. The cat’s head rises over the back of the armchair. In his eyes appear hearts pierced by arrows. He slithers over the chair and slides along the floor like honey. When he reaches the strutting cat, he glides to an upright position and stands mooning at her. His heart is thumping so hard that it pushes out the skin of his chest with each beat. The cat reaches into a pocket and removes a straw boater, which he places on his head at a rakish angle. He fastens at his throat a large polka-dot bow tie. He becomes aware of a ticking sound. He removes from his pocket a round yellow watch, places it against his ear, frowns, and returns it to his pocket. He bends close to the face of the cat and sees in each of her eyes a shiny round black bomb with a burning fuse. The cat turns to the audience and then back to the dangerous eyes. The mechanical cat blows up. When the smoke clears, the cat’s skin hangs in tatters about him, revealing his raw pink flesh and a pair of polka-dot boxer shorts. Outside the mousehole, the cat is winding up a mouse that exactly resembles the real mouse. The mechanical mouse is wearing a bathrobe and slippers, stands with hands in pockets, and has a pair of eyeglasses perched at the end of its nose. The cat lifts open the top of the mouse’s head, which is attached in the manner of a hinged lid. He inserts a sizzling red stick of dynamite and closes the lid. He sets the mouse in front of the hole and watches as it vanishes through the arched opening. Inside, the mouse is sitting in his chair, reading a book. He does not raise his eyes to the visitor, who glides over with its hands in its pockets. Still reading, the mouse reaches out and lifts open the head of his double. He removes the sizzling dynamite, thrusts it into a cake, and inserts the cake into the mouse’s head. He turns the mechanical mouse around and continues reading as it walks out through the arch. The cat is squatting beside the hole with his eyes shut and his fingers pressed in his ears. He opens his eyes and sees the mouse. His eyebrows rise. He snatches up the mouse, opens its head, and lifts out a thickly frosted cake that says “Happy Birthday.” In the center of the cake is a sizzling red stick of dynamite. The cat’s hair leaps up. He takes a tremendous breath and blows out the fuse with such force that for a moment the cake is slanted. Now the cat grins, licks his teeth, and opens his jaws. He hears a sound. The cake is ticking loudly: tock tock, tock tock. Puzzled, the cat holds it up to one ear. He listens closely. A terrible knowledge dawns in his eyes. The cat rides into the living room in a bright-yellow crane. From the boom hangs a shiny black wrecking ball. He drives up to the mousehole and stops. He pushes and pulls a pair of levers, which cause the wrecking ball to be inserted into a gigantic rubber band attached to a gigantic slingshot. The rubber band stretches back and back. Suddenly, it releases the shiny black ball, which smashes into the wall. The entire house collapses, leaving only a tall red chimney standing amid the ruins. On top of the chimney is a stork’s nest, in which a stork sits with a fishing pole. He is wearing a blue baseball cap. Below, in the rubble, a stirring is visible. The cat rises unsteadily, leaning on a crutch. His head is covered with a white bandage that conceals an eye; one leg is in a cast and one arm in a sling. With the tip of his crutch, he moves away a pile of rubble and exposes a fragment of baseboard. In the baseboard we see the unharmed mousehole. Inside the mousehole, the mouse sits in his chair, reading a book. The mouse understands that the clownishly inept cat has the freedom to fail over and over again, during the long course of an inglorious lifetime, while he himself is denied the liberty of a single mistake. It is highly unlikely, of course, that he will ever be guilty of an error, since he is much cleverer than the cat and immediately sees through every one of his risible stratagems. Still, might not the very knowledge of his superiority lead to a relaxation of vigilance that will prove fatal, in the end? After all, he is not invulnerable; he is invulnerable only insofar as he is vigilant. The mouse is bored, deeply bored, by the ease with which he outwits the cat; there are times when he longs for a more worthy enemy, someone more like himself. He understands that his boredom is a dangerous weakness against which he must perpetually be on his guard. Sometimes he thinks, If only I could stop watching over myself, if only I could let myself go! The thought alarms him and causes him to look over his shoulder at the mousehole, across which the shadow of the cat has already fallen. The cat enters from the left, carrying a sack over one shoulder. He sets the sack down beside the mousehole. He unties a rope from the neck of the sack, plunges both hands in, and carefully lifts out a gray cloud. He places the cloud in the air above the mousehole. Rain begins to fall from the cloud, splashing down in great drops. The cat reaches into the sack and removes some old clothes. He swiftly disguises himself as a peddler and rings the mouse’s bell. The mouse appears in the arched doorway, leaning against the side with his arms folded across his stomach and his ankles crossed as he stares out at the rain. The cat removes from the sack an array of mouse-size umbrellas, which he opens in turn: red, yellow, green, blue. The mouse shakes his head. The cat removes from the sack a yellow slicker, a pair of hip boots, a fishing rod and tackle box. The mouse shakes his head. The cat removes a red rubber sea horse, a compressed-air tank, a diving bell, a rowboat, a yacht. The mouse shakes his head, steps into his house, and slams the door. He opens the door, hangs a sign on the knob, and slams the door again. The sign reads “Not Home.” The rain falls harder. The cat steps out from under the cloud, which rises above his head and begins to follow him about the room. The storm grows worse: he is pelted with hailstones the size of golf balls. In the cloud appear many golfers, driving golf balls into the room. Forked lightning flashes; thunder roars. The cat rushes around the room trying to escape the cloud and dives under the couch. His tail sticks out. Lightning strikes the tail, which crackles like an electric wire. The couch rises for an instant, exposing the luminous, electrified cat rigid with shock; inside the cat’s body, with its rim of spiked fur, his blue-white skeleton is visible. Now snow begins to fall from the cloud, and whistling winds begin to blow. Snow lies in drifts on the rug, rises swiftly up the sides of the armchair, sweeps up to the mantelpiece, where the clock looks down in terror and covers its eyes with its hands. The cat struggles slowly through the blizzard but is soon encased in snow. Icicles hang from his chin. He stands motionless, shaped like a cat struggling forward with bent head. The door of the mousehole opens and the mouse emerges, wearing earmuffs, scarf, and gloves. The sun is shining. He begins shovelling a path. When he comes to the snow-cat, he climbs to the top of his shovel and sticks a carrot in the center of the snowy face. Then he climbs down, steps back, and begins throwing snowballs. The cat’s head falls off. The cat is pacing angrily in the kitchen, his hands behind his back and his eyebrows drawn down in a V. In a bubble above his head a wish appears: He is operating a circular saw that moves slowly, with high whining sounds, along a yellow board. At the end of the board is the mouse, lying on his back, tied down with ropes. The image vanishes and is replaced by another: The cat, wearing an engineer’s hat, is driving a great train along a track. The mouse is stretched across the middle of the track, his wrists fastened to one rail and his ankles to the other. Sweat bursts in big drops from the mouse’s face as the image vanishes and is replaced by another: The cat is turning a winch that slowly lowers an anvil toward the mouse, who is tied to a little chair. The mouse looks up in terror. Suddenly, the cat lets go of the crank and the anvil rushes down with a whistling sound as the winch spins wildly. At the last moment, the mouse tumbles away. The anvil falls through the bubble onto the cat’s head. The cat understands that the mouse will always outwit him, but this tormenting knowledge serves only to inflame his desire to catch the mouse. He will never give up. His life, in relation to the mouse, is one long failure, a monotonous succession of unspeakable humiliations; his unhappiness is relieved only by moments of delusional hope, during which he believes, despite doubts supported by a lifetime of bitter experience, that at last he will succeed. Although he knows that he will never catch the mouse, who will forever escape into his mousehole a half inch ahead of the reaching claw, he also knows that only if he catches the mouse will his wretched life be justified. He will be transformed. Is it therefore his own life that he seeks, when he lies awake plotting against the mouse? Is it, when all is said and done, himself that he is chasing? The cat frowns and scratches his nose. The cat stands before the mousehole holding in one hand a piece of white chalk. On the blue wall he draws the outline of a large door. The mousehole is at the bottom of the door. He draws the circle of a doorknob and opens the door. He steps into a black room. At the end of the room stands the mouse with a piece of chalk. The mouse draws a white mousehole on the wall and steps through. The cat kneels down and peers into the mousehole. He stands up and draws another door. He opens the door and steps into another black room. At the end of the room stands the mouse, who draws another mousehole and steps through. The cat draws another door, the mouse draws another mousehole. Faster and faster they draw: door, hole, door, hole, door. At the end of the last room, the mouse draws on the wall a white stick of dynamite. He draws a white match, which he takes in his hand and strikes against the wall. He lights the dynamite and hands it to the cat. The cat looks at the white outline of the dynamite. He offers it to the mouse. The mouse shakes his head. The cat points to himself and raises his eyebrows. The mouse nods. The stick of dynamite explodes. The cat enters on the left, wearing a yellow hard hat and pushing a red wheelbarrow. The wheelbarrow is piled high with boards. In front of the mousehole, the cat puts down the handles of the barrow, pulls a hammer and saw from the pile of boards, and thrusts a fistful of black nails between his teeth. He begins sawing and hammering rapidly, moving from one end of the room to the other as a cloud of dust conceals his work. Suddenly, the dust clears and the cat beholds his creation: he has constructed a tall guillotine, connected to the mousehole by a stairway. The blue-black glistening blade hangs between posts high above the opening for the head. Directly below the opening, on the other side, stands a basket. On the rim of the basket the cat places a wedge of cheese. The cat loops a piece of string onto a lever in the side of the guillotine and fastens the other end of the string to the wedge of cheese. Then he tiptoes away with hunched shoulders and vanishes behind a fire shovel. A moment later, the mouse climbs the stairs onto the platform of the guillotine. He stands with his hands in the pockets of his robe and contemplates the blade, the opening for the head, and the piece of cheese. He removes from one pocket a yellow package with a red bow. He leans over the edge of the platform and slips the loop from the lever. He thrusts his head through the head hole, removes the piece of cheese from the rim of the basket, and sets the package in its place. He ties the string to the package, slides his head back through the hole, and fits the loop of the string back over the lever. From his pocket he removes a large pair of scissors, which he lays on the platform. He next removes a length of rope, which he fastens to the lever so that the rope hangs nearly to the floor. On the floor, he stands cross-ankled against the wheel of the barrow, eating his cheese. A moment later, the cat leaps onto the platform. He looks up in surprise at the unfallen blade. He crouches down, peers through the head hole, and sees the yellow package. He frowns. He looks up at the blade. He looks at the yellow package. Gingerly, he reaches a paw through the opening and snatches it back. He frowns at the string. A cunning look comes into his eyes. He notices the pair of scissors, picks them up, and cuts the string. He waits, but nothing happens. Eagerly, he thrusts his head through the opening and reaches for the package. The mouse, eating his cheese with one hand, lazily tugs at the rope with the other. The blade rushes down with the sound of a roaring train; a forlorn whistle blows. The cat tries to pull his head out of the hole. The blade slices off the top half of his head, which drops into the basket and rolls noisily around like a coin. The cat pulls himself out of the hole and stumbles about until he falls over the edge of the platform into the basket. He seizes the top of his head and puts it on like a hat. It is backward. He straightens it with a half turn. In his hand, he sees with surprise the yellow package with the red bow. Frowning, he unties it. Inside is a bright-red stick of dynamite with a sizzling fuse. The cat looks at the dynamite and turns his head to the audience. He blinks once. The dynamite explodes. When the smoke clears, the cat’s face is black. In each eye a ship cracks in half and slowly sinks in the water. The mouse is sitting in his chair with his feet on the hassock and his open book face down on his lap. A mood of melancholy has invaded him, as if the brown tones of his room had seeped into his brain. He feels stale and out of sorts: he moves within the narrow compass of his mind, utterly devoid of fresh ideas. Is he perhaps too much alone? He thinks of the cat and wonders whether there is some dim and distant possibility of a connection, perhaps a companionship. Is it possible that they might become friends? Perhaps he could teach the cat to appreciate the things of the mind, and learn from the cat to enjoy life’s simpler pleasures. Perhaps the cat, too, feels an occasional sting of loneliness. Haven’t they much in common, after all? Both are bachelors, indoor sorts, who enjoy the comforts of a cozy domesticity; both are secretive; both take pleasure in plots and schemes. The more the mouse pursues this line of thought, the more it seems to him that the cat is a large, soft mouse. He imagines the cat with mouse ears and gentle mouse paws, wearing a white bib, sitting across from him at the kitchen table, lifting to his mouth a fork at the end of which is a piece of cheese. The cat enters from the right with a chalkboard eraser in one hand. He goes over to the mousehole, bends down, and erases it. He stands up and erases the wall, revealing the mouse’s home. The mouse is sitting in his chair with his feet on the hassock and his open book face down on his lap. The cat bends over and erases the book. The mouse looks up in irritation. The cat erases the mouse’s chair. He erases the hassock. He erases the entire room. He tosses the eraser over his shoulder. Now there is nothing left in the world except the cat and the mouse. The cat snatches him up in a fist. The cat’s red tongue slides over glistening teeth sharp as ice picks. Here and there, over a tooth, a bright star expands and contracts. The cat opens his jaws wider, closes his eyes, and hesitates. The death of the mouse is desirable in every way, but will life without him really be pleasurable? Will the mouse’s absence satisfy him entirely? Is it conceivable that he may miss the mouse, from time to time? Is it possible that he needs the mouse, in some disturbing way? As the cat hesitates, the mouse reaches into a pocket of his robe and removes a red handkerchief. With swift circular strokes he wipes out the cat’s teeth while the cat’s eyes watch in surprise. He wipes out the cat’s eyes. He wipes out the cat’s whiskers. He wipes out the cat’s head. Still held in the cat’s fist, he wipes out the entire cat, except for the paw holding him. Then, very carefully, he wipes out the paw. He drops lightly down and slaps his palms together. He looks about. He is alone with his red handkerchief in a blank white world. After a pause, he begins to wipe himself out, moving rapidly from head to toe. Now there is nothing left but the red handkerchief. The handkerchief flutters, grows larger, and suddenly splits in half. The halves become red theatre curtains, which begin to close. Across the closing curtains, words write themselves in black script: “The End.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Rabbit Hole As Likely Explanation	My mother does not remember being invited to my first wedding. This comes up in conversation when I pick her up from the lab, where blood has been drawn to see how she’s doing on her medication. She’s sitting in an orange plastic chair, giving the man next to her advice I’m not sure he asked for about how to fill out forms on a clip-board. Apparently, before I arrived, she told him that she had not been invited to either of my weddings. “I don’t know why you sent me to have my blood drawn,” she says. “The doctor asked me to make an appointment. I did not send you.” “Well, you were late. I sat there waiting and waiting.” “You showed up an hour before your appointment, Ma. That’s why you were there so long. I arrived fifteen minutes after the nurse called me.” It’s my authoritative but cajoling voice. One tone negates the other and nothing much gets communicated. “You sound like Perry Mason,” she says. “Ma, there’s a person trying to get around you.” “Well, I’m very sorry if I’m holding anyone up. They can just honk and get into the other lane.” A woman hurries around my mother in the hospital corridor, narrowly missing an oncoming wheelchair brigade: four chairs, taking up most of the hallway. “She drives a sports car, that one,” my mother says. “You can always tell. But look at the size of her. How does she fit in the car?” I decide to ignore her. She has on dangling hoop earrings, and there’s a scratch on her forehead and a Band-Aid on her cheekbone. Her face looks a little like an obstacle course. “Who is going to get our car for us?” she asks. “Who do you think? Sit in the lobby, and I’ll turn into the driveway.” “A car makes you think about the future all the time, doesn’t it?” she says. “You have to do all that imagining: how you’ll get out of the garage and into your lane and how you’ll deal with all the traffic, and then one time, remember, just as you got to the driveway a man and a woman stood smack in the center, arguing, and they wouldn’t move so you could pull in.” “My life is a delight,” I say. “I don’t think your new job agrees with you. You’re such a beautiful seamstress—a real, old-fashioned talent—and what do you do but work on computers and leave that lovely house in the country and drive into this . . . this crap five days a week.” “Thank you, Ma, for expressing even more eloquently than I—” “Did you finish those swordfish costumes?” “Starfish. I was tired, and I watched TV last night. Now, if you sit in that chair over there you’ll see me pull in. It’s windy. I don’t want you standing outside.” “You always have some reason why I can’t be outside. You’re afraid of the bees, aren’t you? After that bee stung your toe when you were raking, you got desperate about yellow jackets—that’s what they’re called. You shouldn’t have had on sandals when you were raking. Wear your hiking boots when you rake leaves, if you can’t find another husband to do it for you.” “Please stop lecturing me and—” “Get your car! What’s the worst that can happen? I have to stand up for a few minutes? It’s not like I’m one of those guards outside Buckingham Palace who has to look straight ahead until he loses consciousness.” “O.K. You can stand here and I’ll pull in.” “What car do you have?” “The same car I always have.” “If I don’t come out, come in for me.” “Well, of course, Ma. But why wouldn’t you come out?” “S.U.V.s can block your view. They drive right up, like they own the curb. They’ve got those tinted windows like Liz Taylor might be inside, or a gangster. That lovely man from Brunei—why did I say that? I must have been thinking of the Sultan of Brunei. Anyway, that man I was talking to said that in New York City he was getting out of a cab at a hotel at the same exact moment that Elizabeth Taylor got out of a limousine. He said she just kept handing little dogs out the door to everybody. The doorman. The bellhop. Her hairdresser had one under each arm. But they weren’t hers—they were his own dogs! He didn’t have a free hand to help Elizabeth Taylor. So that desperate man—” “Ma, we’ve got to get going.” “I’ll come with you.” “You hate elevators. The last time we tried that, you wouldn’t walk—” “Well, the stairs didn’t kill me, did they?” “I wasn’t parked five flights up. Look, just stand by the window and—” “I know what’s happening. You’re telling me over and over!” I raise my hands and drop them. “See you soon,” I say. “Is it the green car? The black car that I always think is green?” “Yes, Ma. My only car.” “Well, you don’t have to say it like that. I hope you never know what it’s like to have small confusions about things. I understand that your car is black. It’s when it’s in strong sun that it looks a little green.” “Back in five,” I say, and enter the revolving door. A man ahead of me, with both arms in casts, pushes on the glass with his forehead. We’re out in a few seconds. Then he turns and looks at me, his face crimson. “I didn’t know if I pushed, whether it might make the door go too fast,” I say. “I figured there was an explanation,” he says dully, and walks away. The fat woman who passed us in the hallway is waiting on the sidewalk for the light to change, chatting on her cell phone. When the light blinks green, she moves forward with her head turned to the side, as if the phone clamped to her ear were leading her. She has on an ill-fitting blazer and one of those long skirts that everybody wears, with sensible shoes and a teeny purse dangling over her shoulder. “Right behind you,” my mother says distinctly, catching up with me halfway to the opposite curb. “Ma, there’s an elevator.” “You do enough things for your mother! It’s desperate of you to do this on your lunch hour. Does picking me up mean you won’t get any food? Now that you can see I’m fine, you could send me home in a cab.” “No, no, it’s no problem. But last night you asked me to drop you at the hairdresser. Wasn’t that where you wanted to go?” “Oh, I don’t think that’s today.” “Yes. The appointment is in fifteen minutes. With Eloise.” “I wouldn’t want to be named for somebody who caused a commotion at the Plaza. Would you?” “No. Ma, why don’t you wait by the ticket booth, and when I drive—” “You’re full of ideas! Why won’t you just let me go to the car with you?” “In an elevator? You’re going to get in an elevator? All right. Fine with me.” “It isn’t one of those glass ones, is it?” “It does have one glass wall.” “I’ll be like those other women, then. The ones who’ve hit the glass ceiling.” “Here we are.” “It has a funny smell. I’ll sit in a chair and wait for you.” “Ma, that’s back across the street. You’re here now. I can introduce you to the guy over there in the booth, who collects the money. Or you can just take a deep breath and ride up with me. O.K.?” A man inside the elevator, wearing a suit, holds the door open. “Thank you,” I say. “Ma?” “I like your suggestion about going to that chapel,” she says. “Pick me up there.” The man continues to hold the door with his shoulder, his eyes cast down. “Not a chapel, a booth. Right there? That’s where you’ll be?” “Yes. Over there with that man.” “You see the man—” I step off the elevator and the doors close behind me. “I did see him. He said that his son was getting married in Las Vegas. And I said, ‘I never got to go to my daughter’s weddings.’ And he said, ‘How many weddings did she have?’ and of course I answered honestly. So he said, ‘How did that make you feel?’ and I said that a dog was at one of them.” “That was the wedding you came to. My first wedding. You don’t remember putting a bow on Ebeneezer’s neck? It was your idea.” I take her arm and guide her toward the elevator. “Yes, I took it off a beautiful floral display that was meant to be inside the church, but you and that man wouldn’t go inside. There was no flat place to stand. If you were a woman wearing heels, there was no place to stand anywhere, and it was going to rain.” “It was a sunny day.” “I don’t remember that. Did Grandma make your dress?” “No. She offered, but I wore a dress we bought in London.” “That was just desperate. It must have broken her heart.” “Her arthritis was so bad she could hardly hold a pen, let alone a needle.” “You must have broken her heart.” “Well, Ma, this isn’t getting us to the car. What’s the plan?” “The Marshall Plan.” “What?” “The Marshall Plan. People of my generation don’t scoff at that.” “Ma, maybe we’d better give standing by the booth another try. You don’t even have to speak to the man. Will you do it?” “Do you have some objection if I get on the elevator with you?” “No, but this time if you say you’re going to do it you have to do it. We can’t have people holding doors open all day. People need to get where they’re going.” “Listen to the things you say! They’re so obvious, I don’t know why you say them.” She is looking through her purse. Just below the top of her head, I can see her scalp through her hair. “Ma,” I say. “Yes, yes, coming,” she says. “I thought I might have the card with that hair stylist’s name.” “It’s Eloise.” “Thank you, dear. Why didn’t you say so before?” I call my brother Tim. “She’s worse,” I say. “If you want to visit her while she’s still more or less with it, I’d suggest you book a flight.” “You don’t know,” he says. “The fight for tenure. How much rides on this one article.” “Tim. As your sister. I’m not talking about your problems, I’m—” “She’s been going downhill for some time. And God bless you for taking care of her! She’s a wonderful woman. And I give you all the credit. You’re a patient person.” “Tim. She’s losing it by the day. If you care—if you care, see her now.” “Let’s be honest: I don’t have deep feelings, and I wasn’t her favorite. That was the problem with René: Did I have any deep feelings? I mean, kudos! Kudos to you! Do you have any understanding of why Mom and Dad got together? He was a recluse, and she was such a party animal. She never understood a person turning to books for serious study, did she? Did she? Maybe I’d be the last to know.” “Tim, I suggest you visit before Christmas.” “That sounds more than a little ominous. May I say that? You call when I’ve just gotten home from a day I couldn’t paraphrase, and you tell me—as you have so many times—that she’s about to die, or lose her marbles entirely, and then you say—” “Take care, Tim,” I say, and hang up. I drive to my mother’s apartment to kill time while she gets her hair done, and go into the living room and see that the plants need watering. Two are new arrivals, plants that friends brought her when she was in the hospital, having her foot operated on: a kalanchoe and a miniature chrysanthemum. I rinse out the mug she probably had her morning coffee in and fill it under the faucet. I douse the plants, refilling the mug twice. My brother is re-thinking Wordsworth at a university in Ohio, and for years I have been back in this small town in Virginia where we grew up, looking out for our mother. Kudos, as he would say. “O.K.,” the doctor says. “We’ve known the time was coming. It will be much better if she’s in an environment where her needs are met. I’m only talking about assisted living. If it will help, I’m happy to meet with her and explain that things have reached a point where she needs a more comprehensive support system.” “She’ll say no.” “Regardless,” he says. “You and I know that if there was a fire she wouldn’t be capable of processing the necessity of getting out. Does she eat dinner? We can’t say for sure that she eats, now, can we? She needs to maintain her caloric intake. We want to allow her to avail herself of resources structured so that she can best meet her own needs.” “She’ll say no,” I say again. “May I suggest that you let Tim operate as a support system?” “Forget him. He’s already been denied tenure twice.” “Be that as it may, if your brother knows she’s not eating—” “Do you know she’s not eating?” “Let’s say she’s not eating,” he says. “It’s a slippery slope.” “Pretending that I have my brother as a ‘support system’ has no basis in reality. You want me to admit that she’s thin? O.K. She’s thin.” “Please grant my point, without—” “Why? Because you’re a doctor? Because you’re pissed off that she misbehaved at some cashier’s stand in a parking lot?” “You told me she pulled the fire alarm,” he says. “She’s out of control! Face it.” “I’m not sure,” I say, my voice quivering. “I am. I’ve known you forever. I remember your mother making chocolate-chip cookies, my father always going to your house to see if she’d made the damned cookies. I know how difficult it is when a parent isn’t able to take care of himself. My father lived in my house, and Donna took care of him in a way I can never thank her enough for, until he . . . well, until he died.” “Tim wants me to move her to a cheap nursing home in Ohio.” “Out of the question.” “Right. She hasn’t come to the point where she needs to go to Ohio. On the other hand, we should put her in the slammer here.” “The slammer. We can’t have a serious discussion if you pretend we’re talking to each other in a comic strip.” I bring my knees to my forehead, clasp my legs, and press the kneecaps hard into my eyes. “I understand from Dr. Milrus that you’re having a difficult time,” the therapist says. Her office is windowless, the chairs cheerfully mismatched. “Why don’t you fill me in?” “Well, my mother had a stroke a year ago. It did something. . . . Not that she didn’t have some confusions before, but after the stroke she thought my brother was ten years old. She still sometimes says things about him that I can’t make any sense of, unless I remember that she often, really quite often, thinks he’s still ten. She also believes that I’m sixty. I mean, she thinks I’m only fourteen years younger than she is! And, to her, that’s proof that my father had another family. Our family was an afterthought, my father had had another family, and I’m a child of the first marriage. I’m sixty years old, whereas she herself was only seventy-four when she had the stroke and fell over on the golf course.” The therapist nods. “In any case, my brother is forty-four—about to be forty-five—and lately it’s all she’ll talk about.” “Your brother’s age?” “No, the revelation. That they—you know, the other wife, and children—existed. She thinks the shock made her fall down at the fourth tee.” “Were your parents happily married?” “I’ve shown her my baby album and said, ‘If I was some other family’s child, then what is this?’ And she says, ‘More of your father’s chicanery.’ That is the exact word she uses. The thing is, I am not sixty. I’ll be fifty-one next week.” “It’s difficult, having someone dependent upon us, isn’t it?” “Well, yes. But that’s because she causes herself so much pain by thinking that my father had a previous family.” “How do you think you can best care for your mother?” “She pities me! She really does! She says she’s met every one of them: a son and a daughter, and a woman, a wife, who looks very much like her, which seems to make her sad. Well, I guess it would make her sad. Of course it’s fiction, but I’ve given up trying to tell her that, because in a way I think it’s symbolically important. It’s necessary to her that she think what she thinks, but I’m just so tired of what she thinks. Do you know what I mean?” “Tell me about yourself,” the therapist says. “You live alone?” “Me? Well, at this point I’m divorced, after I made the mistake of not marrying my boyfriend, Vic, and married an old friend instead. Vic and I talked about getting married, but I was having a lot of trouble taking care of my mother, and I could never give him enough attention. When we broke up, Vic devoted all his time to his secretary’s dog, Banderas. If Vic was grieving, he did it while he was at the dog park.” “And you work at Cosmos Computer, it says here?” “I do. They’re really very family-oriented. They understand absolutely that I have to take time off to do things for my mother. I used to work at an interior-design store, and I still sew. I’ve just finished some starfish costumes for a friend’s third-grade class.” “Jack Milrus thinks your mother might benefit from being in assisted living.” “I know, but he doesn’t know—he really doesn’t know—what it’s like to approach my mother about anything.” “What is the worst thing that might happen if you did approach your mother?” “The worst thing? My mother turns any subject to the other family, and whatever I want is just caught up in the whirlwind of complexity of this thing I won’t acknowledge, which is my father’s previous life, and, you know, she omits my brother from any discussion because she thinks he’s a ten-year-old child.” “You feel frustrated.” “Is there any other way to feel?” “You could say to yourself, ‘My mother has had a stroke and has certain confusions that I can’t do anything about.’ ” “You don’t understand. It is absolutely necessary that I acknowledge this other family. If I don’t, I’ve lost all credibility.” The therapist shifts in her seat. “May I make a suggestion?” she says. “This is your mother’s problem, not yours. You understand something that your mother, whose brain has been affected by a stroke, cannot understand. Just as you would guide a child, who does not know how to function in the world, you are now in a position where—whatever your mother believes—you must nevertheless do what is best for her.” “You need a vacation,” Jack Milrus says. “If I weren’t on call this weekend, I’d suggest that you and Donna and I go up to Washington and see that show at the Corcoran where all the figures walk out of the paintings.” “I’m sorry I keep bothering you with this. I know I have to make a decision. It’s just that when I went back to look at the Oaks and that woman had mashed an éclair into her face—” “It’s funny. Just look at it as funny. Kids make a mess. Old people make a mess. Some old biddy pushed her nose into a pastry.” “Right,” I say, draining my gin-and-tonic. We are in his back yard. Inside, Donna is making her famous osso buco. “You know, I wanted to ask you something. Sometimes she says ‘desperate.’ She uses the word when you wouldn’t expect to hear it.” “Strokes,” he says. “But is she trying to say what she feels?” “Does it come out like a hiccup or something?” He pulls up a weed. “No, she just says it, instead of another word.” He looks at the long tap root of the dandelion he’s twisted up. “The South,” he says. “These things have a horribly long growing season.” He drops it in a wheelbarrow filled with limp things raked up from the yard. “I am desperate to banish dandelions,” he says. “No, she wouldn’t use it like that. She’d say something like ‘Oh, it was desperate of you to ask me to dinner.’ ” “It certainly was. You weren’t paying any attention to me on the telephone.” “Just about ready!” Donna calls out the kitchen window. Jack raises a hand in acknowledgment. He says, “Donna’s debating whether to tell you that she saw Vic and Banderas having a fight near the dog park. Vic was knocking Banderas on the snout with a baseball cap, Donna says, and Banderas had squared off and was showing teeth. Groceries all over the street.” “I’m amazed. I thought Banderas could do no wrong.” “Well, things change.” In the yard next door, the neighbor’s strange son faces the street lamp and, excruciatingly slowly, begins his many evening sun salutations. Cora, my brother’s friend, calls me at midnight. I am awake, watching “Igby Goes Down” on the VCR. Susan Sarandon, as the dying mother, is a wonder. Three friends sent me the tape for my birthday. The only other time such a thing has happened was years ago, when four friends sent me “Play It as It Lays,” by Joan Didion. “Tim thinks that he and I should do our share and have Mom here for a vacation, which we could do in November, when the college has a reading break,” Cora says. “I would move into Tim’s condominium, if it wouldn’t offend Mom.” “That’s nice of you,” I say. “But you know that she thinks Tim is ten years old? I’m not sure that she’d be willing to fly to Ohio to have a ten-year-old take care of her.” “What?” “Tim hasn’t told you about this? He wrote her a letter, recently, and she saved it to show me how good his penmanship was.” “Well, when she gets here she’ll see that he’s a grownup.” “She might think it’s a Tim impostor, or something. She’ll talk to you constantly about our father’s first family.” “I still have some Ativan from when a root canal had to be redone,” Cora says. “O.K., look—I’m not trying to discourage you. But I’m also not convinced that she can make the trip alone. Would Tim consider driving here to pick her up?” “Gee. My nephew is eleven, and he’s been back and forth to the West Coast several times.” “I don’t think this is a case of packing snacks in her backpack and giving her a puzzle book for the plane,” I say. “Oh, I am not trying to infantilize your mother. Quite the opposite: I think that if she suspects there’s doubt about whether she can do it on her own she might not rise to the occasion, but if we just . . .” “People never finish their sentences anymore,” I say. “Oh, gosh, I can finish,” Cora says. “I mean, I was saying that she’ll take care of herself if we assume that she can take care of herself.” “Would a baby take care of itself if we assumed that it could?” “Oh, my goodness!” Cora says. “Look what time it is! I thought it was nine o’clock! Is it after midnight?” “Twelve-fifteen.” “My watch stopped! I’m looking at the kitchen clock and it says twelve-ten.” I have met Cora twice: once she weighed almost two hundred pounds, and the other time she’d been on Atkins and weighed a hundred and forty. Bride’s magazine was in the car when she picked me up at the airport. During the last year, however, her dreams have not been fulfilled. “Many apologies,” Cora says. “Listen,” I say. “I was awake. No need to apologize. But I don’t feel that we’ve settled anything.” “I’m going to have Tim call you tomorrow, and I am really sorry!” “Cora, I didn’t mean anything personal when I said that people don’t finish sentences anymore. I don’t finish my own.” “You take care, now!” she says, and hangs up. “She’s where?” “Right here in my office. She was on a bench in Lee Park. Someone saw her talking to a woman who was drunk—a street person—just before the cops arrived. The woman was throwing bottles she’d gotten out of a restaurant’s recycling at the statue. Your mother said she was keeping score. The woman was winning, the statue losing. The woman had blood all over her face, so eventually somebody called the cops.” “Blood all over her face?” “She’d cut her fingers picking up glass after she threw it. It was the other woman who was bloody.” “Oh, God, my mother’s O.K.?” “Yes, but we need to act. I’ve called the Oaks. They can’t do anything today, but tomorrow they can put her in a semi-private for three nights, which they aren’t allowed to do, but never mind. Believe me: once she’s in there, they’ll find a place.” “I’ll be right there.” “Hold on,” he says. “We need to have a plan. I don’t want her at your place: I want her hospitalized tonight, and I want an MRI. Tomorrow morning, if there’s no problem, you can take her to the Oaks.” “What’s the point of scaring her to death? Why does she have to be in a hospital?” “She’s very confused. It won’t be any help if you don’t get to sleep tonight.” “I feel like we should—” “You feel like you should protect your mother, but that’s not really possible, is it? She was picked up in Lee Park. Fortunately, she had my business card and her beautician’s card clipped to a shopping list that contains—it’s right in front of me—items such as Easter eggs and arsenic.” “Arsenic? Was she going to poison herself?” There is a moment of silence. “Let’s say she was,” he says, “for the sake of argument. Now, come and pick her up, and we can get things rolling.” T im and Cora were getting married by a justice of the peace at approximately the same time that “Mom” was tracking bottles in Lee Park; they converge on the hospital room with Donna Milrus, who whispers apologetically that her husband is “playing doctor” and avoiding visiting hours. Cora’s wedding bouquet is in my mother’s water pitcher. Tim cracks his knuckles and clears his throat repeatedly. “They got upset that I’d been sitting in the park. Can you imagine?” my mother says suddenly to the assembled company. “Do you think we’re going to have many more of these desperate fall days?” The next morning, only Tim and I are there to get her into his rental car and take her to the Oaks. Our mother sits in front, her purse on her lap, occasionally saying something irrational, which I finally figure out is the result of her reading vanity license plates aloud. From the back seat, I look at the town like a visitor. There’s much too much traffic. People’s faces inside their cars surprise me: no one over the age of twenty seems to have a neutral, let alone happy, expression. Men with jutting jaws and women squinting hard pass by. I find myself wondering why more of them don’t wear sunglasses, and whether that might not help. My thoughts drift: the Gucci sunglasses I lost in London; the time I dressed as a skeleton for Halloween. In childhood, I appeared on Halloween as Felix the Cat, as Jiminy Cricket (I still have the cane, which I often pull out of the closet, mistaking it for an umbrella), and as a tomato. “You know,” my mother says to my brother, “your father had an entire family before he met us. He never mentioned them, either. Wasn’t that cruel? If we’d met them, we might have liked them, and vice versa. Your sister gets upset if I say that’s the case, but everything you read now suggests that it’s better if the families meet. You have a ten-year-old brother from that first family. You’re too old to be jealous of a child, aren’t you? So there’s no reason why you wouldn’t get along.” “Mom,” he says, breathlessly. “Your sister tells me every time we see each other that she’s fifty-one. She’s preoccupied with age. Being around an old person can do that. I’m old, but I forget to think about myself that way. Your sister is in the back seat right now thinking about mortality, mark my words.” My brother’s knuckles are white on the wheel. “Are we going to the hairdresser?” she says suddenly. She taps the back of her neck. Her fingers move up until they encounter small curls. When Tim realizes that I’m not going to answer, he says, “Your hair looks lovely, Mom. Don’t worry about it.” “Well, I always like to be punctual when I have an appointment,” she says. I think how strange it is that I was never dressed up as Cleopatra, or as a ballerina. What was wrong with me that I wanted to be a tomato? “Ma, on Halloween, was I ever dressed as a girl?” In the mirror, my brother’s eyes dart to mine. For a second, I remember Vic’s eyes as he checked my reactions in the rearview mirror, those times I had my mother sit up front so the two of them could converse more easily. “Well,” my mother says, “I think one year you thought about being a nurse, but Joanne Willoughby was going to be a nurse. I was in the grocery store, and there was Mrs. Willoughby, fingering the costume we’d thought about the night before. It was wrong of me not to be more decisive. I think that’s what made you impulsive as a grownup.” “You think I’m impulsive? I think of myself as somebody who never does anything unexpected.” “I wouldn’t say that,” my mother says. “Look at that man you married when you didn’t even really know him. The first husband. And then you married that man you knew way back in high school. It makes me wonder if you didn’t inherit some of your father’s fickle tendencies.” “Let’s not fight,” my brother says. “What do you think other mothers would say if I told them both my children got married without inviting me to their weddings? I think some of them would think that must say something about me. Maybe it was my inadequacy that made your father consider us second-best. Tim, men tell other men things. Did your father tell you about the other family?” Tim tightens his grip on the wheel. He doesn’t answer. Our mother pats his arm. She says, “Tim wanted to be Edgar Bergen one year. Do you remember? But your father pointed out that we’d have to buy one of those expensive Charlie McCarthy dolls, and he wasn’t about to do that. Little did we know, he had a whole other family to support.” Everyone at the Oaks is referred to formally as “Mrs.” You can tell when the nurses really like someone, because they refer to her by the less formal “Miz.” Miz Banks is my mother’s roommate. She has a tuft of pure white hair that makes her look like an exotic bird. She is ninety-nine. “Today is Halloween, I understand,” my mother says. “Are we going to have a party?” The nurse smiles. “Whether or not it’s a special occasion, we always have a lovely midday meal,” she says. “And we hope the family will join us.” “It’s suppertime?” Miz Banks says. “No, ma’am, it’s only 10 a.m. right now,” the nurse says loudly. “But we’ll come get you for the midday meal, as we always do.” “Oh, God,” Tim says. “What do we do now?” The nurse frowns. “Excuse me?” she says. “I thought Dr. Milrus was going to be here,” he says. He looks around the room, as if Jack Milrus might be hiding somewhere. Not possible, unless he’s wedged himself behind the desk that is sitting at an odd angle in the corner. The nurse follows his gaze and says, “Miz Banks’s nephew has feng-shui’d her part of the room.” Nearest the door—in our part of the room—there is white wicker furniture. Three pink bears teeter on a mobile hung from an air vent in the ceiling. On a bulletin board is a color picture of a baby with one tooth, grinning. Our mother has settled into a yellow chair and looks quite small. She eyes everyone, and says nothing. “Would this be a convenient time to sign some papers?” the nurse asks. It is the second time that she has mentioned this—both times to my brother, not me. “Oh, my God,” he says. “How can this be happening?” He is not doing very well. “Let’s step outside and let the ladies get to know each other,” the nurse says. She takes his arm and leads him through the door. “We don’t want to be negative,” I hear her say. I sit on my mother’s bed. My mother looks at me blankly. It is as if she doesn’t recognize me in this context. She says, finally, “Whose Greek fisherman’s cap is that?” She is pointing to the Sony Walkman that I placed on the bed, along with an overnight bag and some magazines. “That’s a machine that plays music, Ma.” “No it isn’t,” she says. “It’s a Greek fisherman’s cap.” I pick it up and hold it out to her. I press “play,” and music can be heard through the dangling earphones. We both look at it as if it were the most curious thing in the world. I adjust the volume to low and put the earphones on her head. She closes her eyes. Finally, she says, “Is this the beginning of the Halloween party?” “I threw you off, talking about Halloween,” I say. “Today’s just a day in early November.” “Thanksgiving is next,” she says, opening her eyes. “I suppose it is,” I say. I notice that Miz Banks’s head has fallen forward. “Is that thing over there the turkey?” my mother says, pointing. “It’s your roommate.” “I was joking,” she says. I realize that I am clenching my hands only when I unclench them. I try to smile, but I can’t hold up the corners of my mouth. My mother arranges the earphones around her neck as if they were a stethoscope. “If I’d let you be what you wanted that time, maybe I’d have my own private nurse now. Maybe I wasn’t so smart, after all.” “This is just temporary,” I lie. “Well, I don’t want to go to my grave thinking you blame me for things that were out of my control. It’s perfectly possible that your father was a bigamist. My mother told me not to marry him.” “Gramma told you not to marry Daddy?” “She was a smart old fox. She sniffed him out.” “But he never did what you accuse him of. He came home from the war and married you, and you had us. Maybe we confused you by growing up so fast, or something. I don’t want to make you mad by mentioning my age, but maybe all those years that we were a family, so long ago, were like one long Halloween: we were costumed as children, and then we outgrew the costumes and we were grown.” She looks at me. “That’s an interesting way to put it,” she says. “And the other family—maybe it’s like the mixup between the man dreaming he’s a butterfly, or the butterfly dreaming he’s a man. Maybe you were confused after your stroke, or it came to you in a dream and it seemed real, the way dreams sometimes linger. Maybe you couldn’t understand how we’d all aged, so you invented us again as young people. And for some reason Tim got frozen in time. You said the other wife looked like you. Well, maybe she was you.” “I don’t know,” my mother says slowly. “I think your father was just attracted to the same type of woman.” “But nobody ever met these people. There’s no marriage license. He was married to you for almost fifty years. Don’t you see that what I’m saying is a more likely explanation?” “You really do remind me of that detective, Desperate Mason. You get an idea, and your eyes get big, just the way his do. I feel like you’re about to lean into the witness stand.” Jack Milrus, a towel around his neck, stands in the doorway. “In a million years, you’ll never guess why I’m late,” he says. “A wheel came off a truck and knocked my car off the road, into a pond. I had to get out through the window and wade back to the highway.” A nurse comes up behind him with more towels and some dry clothes. “Maybe it’s just raining out, but it feels to him like he was in a pond,” my mother says, winking at me. “You understand!” I say. “Everybody has his little embellishments,” my mother says. “There wouldn’t be any books to read to children and there would be precious few to read to adults if storytellers weren’t allowed a few embellishments.” “Ma! That is absolutely true.” “Excuse me while I step into the bathroom and change my clothes.” “Humor him,” my mother whispers to me behind her hand. “When he comes out, he’ll think he’s a doctor, but you and I will know that Jack is only hoping to go to medical school.” You think you understand the problem you’re facing, only to find out there is another, totally unexpected problem. There is much consternation and confusion among the nurses when Tim disappears and has not reappeared after nearly an hour. Jack Milrus weighs in: Tim is immature and irresponsible, he says. Quite possibly a much more severe problem than anyone suspected. My mother suggests slyly that Tim decided to fall down a rabbit hole and have an adventure. She says, “The rabbit hole’s a more likely explanation,” smiling smugly. Stretched out in bed, her tennis shoes neatly arranged on the floor, my mother says, “He always ran away from difficult situations. Look at you and Jack, with those astonished expressions on your faces! Mr. Mason will find him,” she adds. Then she closes her eyes. “You see?” Jack Milrus whispers, guiding me out of the room. “She’s adjusted beautifully. And it’s hardly a terrible place, is it?” He answers his own question: “No, it isn’t.” “What happened to the truck?” I ask. “Driver apologized. Stood on the shoulder talking on his cell phone. Three cop cars were there in about three seconds. I got away by pointing to my M.D. plates.” “Did Tim tell you he just got married?” “I heard that. During visiting hours, his wife took Donna aside to give her the happy news and to say that we weren’t to slight him in any way, because he was ready, willing, and able—that was the way she said it to Donna—to assume responsibility for his mother’s well-being. She also went to the hospital this morning just after you left and caused a commotion because they’d thrown away her wedding bouquet.” The phone call the next morning comes as a surprise. Like a telemarketer, Tim seems to be reading from a script: “Our relationship may be strained beyond redemption. When I went to the nurses’ desk and saw that you had included personal information about me on a form you had apparently already filled out elsewhere, in collusion with your doctor friend, I realized that you were yet again condescending to me and subjecting me to humiliation. I was very hurt that you had written both of our names as ‘Person to be notified in an emergency,’ but then undercut that by affixing a Post-it note saying, ‘Call me first. He’s hard to find.’ How would you know? How would you know what my teaching schedule is when you have never expressed the slightest interest? How do you know when I leave my house in the morning and when I return at night? You’ve always wanted to come first. It is also my personal opinion that you O.K.’d the throwing out of my wife’s nosegay, which was on loan to Mom. So go ahead and O.K. everything. Have her euthanized, if that’s what you want to do, and see if I care. Do you realize that you barely took an insincere second to congratulate me and my wife? If you have no respect for me, I nevertheless expect a modicum of respect for my wife.” Of course, he does not know that I’m joking when I respond, “No, thanks. I’m very happy with my A. T. & T. service.” When he slams down the phone, I consider returning to bed and curling into a fetal position, though at the same time I realize that I cannot miss one more day of work. I walk into the bathroom, wearing Vic’s old bathrobe, which I hang on the back of the door. I shower and brush my teeth. I call the Oaks, to see if my mother slept through the night. She did, and is playing bingo. I dress quickly, comb my hair, pick up my purse and keys, and open the front door. A FedEx letter leans against the railing, with Cora’s name and return address on it. I take a step back, walk inside, and open it. There is a sealed envelope with my name on it. I stare at it. The phone rings. It is Mariah Roberts, 2003 Virginia Teacher of the Year for Grade Three, calling to say that she is embarrassed but it has been pointed out to her that children dressed as starfish and sea horses, dancing in front of dangling nets, represent species that are endangered, and often “collected” or otherwise “preyed upon,” and that she wants to reimburse me for materials, but she most certainly does not want me to sew starfish costumes. I look across the bedroom, to the pointy costumes piled on a chair, only the top one still awaiting its zipper. They suddenly look sad—deflated, more than slightly absurd. I can’t think what to say, and am surprised to realize that I’m too choked up to speak. “Not to worry,” I finally say. “Is the whole performance cancelled?” “It’s being reconceived,” she says. “We want sea life that is empowered.” “Barracuda?” I say. “I’ll run that by them,” she says. When we hang up, I continue to examine the sealed envelope. Then I pick up the phone and dial. To my surprise, Vic answers on the second ring. “Hey, I’ve been thinking about you,” he says. “Really. I was going to call and see how you were doing. How’s your mother?” “Fine,” I say. “There’s something that’s been bothering me. Can I ask you a quick question?” “Shoot.” “Donna Milrus said she saw you and Banderas having a fight.” “Yeah,” he says warily. “It’s none of my business, but what caused it?” “Jumped on the car and his claws scratched the paint.” “You said he was the best-trained dog in the world.” “I know it. He always waits for me to open the door, but that day, you tell me. He jumped up and clawed the hell out of the car. If he’d been scared by something, I might have made an allowance. But there was nobody. And then as soon as I swatted him, who gets out of her Lexus but Donna Milrus, and suddenly the grocery bag slips out of my hands and splits open . . . all this stuff rolling toward her, and she points the toe of one of those expensive shoes she wears and stops an orange.” “I can’t believe that about you and Banderas. It shakes up all my assumptions.” “That’s what happened,” he says. “Thanks for the information.” “Hey, wait. I really was getting ready to call you. I was going to say maybe we could get together and take your mother to the Italian place for dinner.” “That’s nice,” I say, “but I don’t think so.” There is a moment’s silence. “Bye, Vic,” I say. “Wait,” he says quickly. “You really called about the dog?” “Uh-huh. You talked about him a lot, you know. He was a big part of our lives.” “There was and is absolutely nothing between me and my secretary, if that’s what you think,” he says. “She’s dating a guy who works in Baltimore. I’ve got this dream that she’ll marry him and leave the dog behind, because he’s got cats.” “I hope for your sake that happens. I’ve got to go to work.” “How about coffee?” he says. “Sure,” I say. “We’ll talk again.” “What’s wrong with coffee right now?” “Don’t you have a job?” “I thought we were going to be friends. Wasn’t that your idea? Ditch me because I’m ten years younger than you, because you’re such an ageist, but we can still be great friends, you can even marry some guy and we’ll still be friends, but you never call, and when you do it’s with some question about a dog you took a dislike to before you ever met him, because you’re a jealous woman. The same way you can like somebody’s kid, and not like them, I like the dog.” “You love the dog.” “O.K., so I’m a little leery about that word. Can I come over for coffee tonight, if you don’t have time now?” “Only if you agree in advance to do me a favor.” “I agree to do you a favor.” “Don’t you want to know what it is?” “No.” “It calls on one of your little-used skills.” “Sex?” “No, not sex. Paper cutting.” “What do you want me to cut up that you can’t cut up?” “A letter from my sister-in-law.” “You don’t have a sister-in-law. Wait: your brother got married? I’m amazed. I thought he didn’t much care for women.” “You think Tim is gay?” “I didn’t say that. I always thought of the guy as a misanthrope. I’m just saying I’m surprised. Why don’t you rip up the letter yourself?” “Vic, don’t be obtuse. I want you to do one of those cutout things with it. I want you to take what I’m completely sure is something terrible and transform it. You know—that thing your grandmother taught you.” “Oh,” he says. “You mean, like the fence and the arbor with the vine?” “Well, I don’t know. It doesn’t have to be that.” “I haven’t practiced in a while,” he says. “Did you have something particular in mind?” “I haven’t read it,” I say. “But I think I know what it says. So how about a skeleton with something driven through its heart?” “I’m afraid my grandmother’s interest was landscape.” “I bet you could do it.” “Sailboat riding on waves?” “My idea is better.” “But out of my field of expertise.” “Tell me the truth,” I say. “I can handle it. Did you buy groceries to cook that woman dinner?” “No,” he says. “Also, remember that you dumped me, and then for a finale you married some jerk so I’d be entitled to do anything I wanted. Then you call and want me to make a corpse with a stake through its heart because you don’t like your new sister-in-law, either. Ask yourself: Am I so normal, myself?” Banderas nearly topples me, then immediately begins sniffing, dragging the afghan off the sofa. He rolls on a corner as if it were carrion, snorting as he rises and charges toward the bedroom. “That’s the letter?” Vic says, snatching the envelope from the center of the table. He rips it open. “Dear Sister-in-law,” he reads, holding the paper above his head as I run toward him. He looks so different with his stubbly beard, and I realize with a pang that I don’t recognize the shirt he’s wearing. He starts again: “Dear Sister-in-law.” He whirls sideways, the paper clutched tightly in his hand. “I know that Tim will be speaking to you, but I wanted to personally send you this note. I think that families have differences, but everyone’s viewpoint is important. I would very much like—” He whirls again, and this time Banderas runs into the fray, rising up on his back legs as if he, too, wanted the letter. “Let the dog eat it! Let him eat the thing if you have to read it out loud!” I say. “—to invite you for Thanksgiving dinner, and also to offer you some of our frequent-flier miles, if that might be helpful, parenthesis, though it may be a blackout period, end paren.” Vic looks at me. “Aren’t you embarrassed at your reaction to this woman? Aren’t you?” The dog leaps into the afghan and rolls again, catching a claw in the weave. Vic and I stand facing each other. I am panting, too shocked to speak. “Please excuse Tim for disappearing when I came to the door of the Oaks. I was there to see if I could help. He said my face provoked a realization of his newfound strength.” Vic sighs. He says, “Just what I was afraid of—some New Ager as crazy as your brother. ‘I’m sure you understand that I was happy to know that I could be helpful to Tim in this trying time. We must all put the past behind us and celebrate our personal Thanksgiving, parenthesis, our wedding, end paren, and I am sure that everything can be put right when we get together. Fondly, your sister-in-law, Cora.’ ” There are tears in my eyes. The afghan is going to need major repair. Vic has brought his best friend into my house to destroy it, and all he will do is hold the piece of paper above his head, as if he’d just won a trophy. “I practiced this afternoon,” he says finally, lowering his arm. “I can do either a train coming through the mountains or a garland of roses with a butterfly on top.” “Great,” I say, sitting on the floor, fighting back tears. “The butterfly can be dreaming it’s a man, or the man can be dreaming he’s . . .” I change my mind about what I was going to say: “Or the man can be dreaming he’s desperate.” Vic doesn’t hear me; he’s busy trying to get Banderas to drop a starfish costume he’s capering with. “Why do you think it would work?” I say to Vic. “We were never right for each other. I’m in my fifties. It would be my third marriage.” Carefully, he creases the letter a second, then a third time. He lifts the scissors out of their small plastic container, fumbling awkwardly with his big fingers. He frowns in concentration and begins to cut. Eventually, from the positive cuttings, I figure out that he’s decided on the train motif. Cutting air away to expose a puff of steam, he says, “Let’s take it slow, then. You could invite me to go with you to Thanksgiving.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Super Goat Man	When Super Goat Man moved into the commune on our street, I was ten years old. Though I liked superheroes, I wasn’t familiar with Super Goat Man. His presence didn’t mean much to me or to the other kids in the neighborhood. For us, as we ran and screamed and played our secret games on the sidewalk, Super Goat Man was only another of the guys who sat on stoops in sleeveless undershirts on hot summer days, watching the slow progress of life on the block. The two little fleshy horns on his forehead didn’t make him especially interesting. We weren’t struck by his fall from grace, out of the world of comic-book heroes, among which he had been at best a minor star, to land here in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn, in a single room in what was basically a dorm for college dropouts, a hippie group shelter, any more than we were by the tufts of extra hair at his throat and behind his ears. We had eyes only for Spider-Man and Batman in those days, superheroes in two dimensions, with lunchboxes and television shows and theme songs. Super Goat Man had none of those. It was our dads who cared. They were unmistakably drawn to the strange figure who’d moved to our block, as though for them he represented some lost possibility in their own lives. My father in particular seemed fascinated with Super Goat Man, though he disguised this interest by acting as though it was on my behalf. One day toward the end of that summer, he and I walked to Montague Street to visit the comics shop there. This was a tiny storefront filled with long white boxes packed with carefully archived comics, protected by plastic bags and cardboard backing. The boxes contained ancient runs of back issues of titles I’d heard of, as well as thousands of other comics featuring characters I’d never encountered. The shop was presided over by a nervous young pedant with long hair and a beard, a collector type himself, an old man in spirit who distrusted children in his store, as he ought to have. He helped my father to find what he sought, deep in the alphabetical archive: a five-issue run of The Remarkable Super Goat Man, from Electric Comics. These were the only comics in which Super Goat Man had appeared. There were just five issues because after five the title had been forever cancelled. My father seemed satisfied with what he’d found. We paid for the five issues and left. I didn’t know how to explain to my father that Electric wasn’t one of the major comics publishers. The stories the comics contained, when we inspected them together, were both ludicrous and boring. Super Goat Man’s five issues showed him rescuing old ladies from swerving trucks and kittens from lightning-struck trees, and battling dull villains like Vest Man and False Dave. The drawings were amateurish, cut-rate, antiquated. I couldn’t have articulated these judgments then, of course. I knew only that I disliked the comics, found them embarrassing, for myself, for Super Goat Man, and for my dad. They languished in my room, unread, and were eventually cleaned up—I mean, thrown out—by my mom. For the next few years, Super Goat Man was less than a minor curiosity to me. I didn’t waste thought on him. The younger men and women who lived in the commune took him for granted, as anyone should have, so far as I knew. We kids would see him in their company, moving furniture up the stoop and into the house—discarded dressers and couches and lamps they’d found on the street—or taping up posters on lampposts announcing demonstrations against nuclear power or in favor of day-care centers, or weeding in the commune’s pathetic front yard, which was intended as a vegetable garden but was choked not only with uninvited growth but with ice-cream wrappers and soda bottles—we kids used the commune’s yard as a dumping ground. It didn’t occur to me that Super Goat Man was much older, really, than the commune’s other occupants, that in fact they might be closer to my age than to his. However childish their behavior, the hippies all seemed as dull and remote as grownups to me. It was the summer when I was thirteen that my parents allowed me to accompany them to one of the commune’s potluck dinners. The noise and vibrancy of that house’s sporadic celebrations were impossible to ignore on our street, and I knew that my parents had attended a few earlier parties—warily, I imagined. The inhabitants of the commune were always trying to sweep their neighbors into dubious causes, and it might be a mistake to be seduced by frivolity into some sticky association. But my parents liked fun, too. And had too little of it. Their best running jokes concerned the dullness of their friends’ dinner parties. This midsummer evening, they brought me along to see inside the life of the scandalous, anomalous house. The house was already full, many of the guests bearded and jewelled and scruffy, reeking of patchouli and musk, others, like my parents, dressed in their hippest collarless shirts and paisley blouses, wearing their fattest beads and bracelets. The offerings, nearly all casseroles brimming with exotic gray proteins—beans and tofu and eggplant and more I couldn’t name—were lined up on a long side table, mostly ignored. This was a version of cocktail hour, with beer drunk from the bottle and well-rolled marijuana cigarettes. I didn’t see whether my parents indulged in the latter. My mother accepted a glass of orange juice, surely spiked. I meant not to pay them any attention, so I moved for the stairs. There were partyers leaning on the bannister at the first landing, and music was playing in upstairs rooms, so I didn’t doubt that the whole house was open to wandering. There was no music coming from the garden-facing room on the second floor, but the door was open and three figures were visible inside, seated on cushions on a mattress on the floor: a young couple and Super Goat Man. From his bare hairy feet on the mattress, I guessed that it was his room I’d entered. The walls were sparse apart from a low bookcase, on which I spotted, laid crosswise in the row of upright spines, Norman Mailer’s “Armies of the Night,” Sergei Eisenstein’s “Film Form/The Film Sense,” and Thomas Pynchon’s “V.” The three titles stuck in my head; I would later attempt to read all three in college, succeeding only with the Mailer. Next to the bookcase was a desk heaped with papers, and behind it a few black-and-white postcards had been thumbtacked to the wall. One of the postcard images I recognized as Charlie Parker, clutching a saxophone with his meaty hands. The jazzman was an idol of my father’s, perhaps a symbol of his vanished youth. The young man on the mattress was holding a book: “Memories, Dreams, Reflections,” by Carl Jung. Super Goat Man had evidently just pressed it on him, and had likely been extolling its virtues when I walked into the room. “Hello,” the young woman said, her voice warm. I must have been staring from my place in the middle of the room. “You’re Everett, aren’t you?” Super Goat Man said, before I could speak. “How’d you know my name?” “You live on the block,” Super Goat Man said. “I’ve seen you running around.” “I think we’ll head down, Super Goat Man,” the young man said abruptly, tucking the book under his arm as he got up from the mattress. “Get something to eat before it’s too late.” “I want to hit the dance floor,” the young woman said. “See you down there,” Super Goat Man said. With that, the young couple were gone. “You checking out the house?” Super Goat Man said once we were alone. “Casing the joint?” “I’m looking for my friend,” I lied. “I think some kids are hanging out in the back yard.” “No, she went upstairs.” I wanted him to think I had a girlfriend. “O.K., cool,” Super Goat Man said. He smiled. I suppose he was waiting for me to leave, but he didn’t give any sign that I was bothering him by staying. “Why do you live here?” I asked. “These are my friends,” he said. “They helped me out when I lost my job.” “You’re not a superhero anymore, are you?” Super Goat Man shrugged. “Some people felt I was being too outspoken about the war. Anyway, I wanted to accomplish things on a more local level.” “Why don’t you have a secret identity?” “I wasn’t that kind of superhero.” “But what was your name before?” “Ralph Gersten.” “What did Ralph Gersten do?” “He was a college teacher, for a couple of years.” “So why aren’t you Ralph Gersten now?” “Sometime around when they shot Kennedy I just realized that Ralph Gersten wasn’t who I was. He was a part of an old life I was holding on to. So I became Super Goat Man. I’ve come to understand that this is who I am, for better or worse.” This was a bit much for me to assimilate, so I changed the subject. “Do you smoke pot?” “Sometimes.” “Were Mr. and Mrs. Gersten sad when you gave up your secret identity?” “Who?” “Your parents.” Super Goat Man smiled. “They weren’t my real parents. I was adopted.” Suddenly I was done. “I’m going downstairs, Super Goat Man.” “O.K., Everett,” he said. “See you down there, probably.” I made my way downstairs to the commune’s muddy and ill-lit back yard, milling with the other teen-agers and children stranded there by the throngs of frolickers—for the party was now overflowing its bounds, and we were free to steal beers from the counter and carry on our own tentative party, our own fumbling flirtations. I had no girlfriend, but I did play spin the bottle that night, crouched on the ground beneath a fig tree. Then, near midnight, I went back inside. The living room was jammed with bodies—dancers on a parquet floor that had been revealed when the vast braided rug was rolled up against the base of the mantelpiece. Colored Christmas lights were bunched in one corner, and some of them blinked to create a gently eerie strobe. I smelled sweat and smoke. Feeling perverse and thrilled by the kisses I’d exchanged in the mud beneath the tree, I meandered into the web of celebrants. Super Goat Man was there. He was dancing with my mother. She was as I’d never seen her, braceleted wrists crossed above her head, swaying to the reggae—I think it was the soundtrack to “The Harder They Come.” Super Goat Man was more dressed up than he’d been in his room upstairs. He wore a felt brocade vest and striped pants. He danced in tiny little steps, as though losing and regaining his balance, his arms loose at his sides, fingers snapping. Mostly he moved his head to the beat, shaking it back and forth as if saying no-no-no, no-no-no. He shook his head at my mother’s dancing, as if he couldn’t approve of the way she was moving but couldn’t quit paying attention, either. My father? He was seated on the rolled-up rug, his back against the mantelpiece, elbows on his knees, dangling with forefinger and thumb a nearly empty paper cup of red wine. Like me, he was watching my mom and Super Goat Man. It didn’t look as if it bothered him at all. My junior year at Corcoran College, in Corcoran, New Hampshire, Super Goat Man was brought in to fill the Walt Whitman Chair in the Humanities. This was 1981, the dawn of Reagan. The chair was required to teach one course; Super Goat Man’s was listed in the catalogue as “Dissidence and Desire: Marginal Heroics in American Life, 1955-1975.” The reading list included Franz Fanon, Roland Barthes, and Timothy Leary. It was typical of Corcoran that it would choose that particular moment to recuperate a figure associated with sixties protest, to enshrine what had once been at the vigorous center of the culture in the harmless pantheon of academia. It was Super Goat Man’s first teaching job since the fifties. The commune on our street had shut down at some point in my high-school years, and I don’t know where Super Goat Man had been in the intervening time. I certainly hadn’t thought about him since departing for college. He’d gained a little weight, but was otherwise unchanged. I first spotted him moving across the Commons lawn on a September afternoon, the scent of fallen and fermenting crab apples on the breeze. It was one of those rare, sweet days on either side of the long New Hampshire winter, when the school year was either falsely fresh before its plunge into bleak December or exhausted and ready to give way to summer. Super Goat Man wore a forest-green corduroy suit and a wide salmon tie, but his feet were still bare. A couple of Corcoran girls trailed alongside him. He had a book open as he walked—perhaps he was reading them a poem. The college had assigned Super Goat Man a dormitory apartment—a suite of rooms built into Sweeney House, one of the student residences. That is to say, he lived on the edge of the vast Commons lawn, and we students felt his watchful presence much as I had on our street in Brooklyn. I didn’t take Super Goat Man’s class, which was full of freshmen and those renegade history and rhetoric majors who’d been seduced by French strains of philosophy and literary theory. I fancied myself a classics scholar then—though I’d soon divert into a major in history—and wasn’t curious about contemporary political theory; nor did I believe Super Goat Man to be a superior teacher. I wasn’t certain that he had nothing to offer the Corcoran students, but whatever he did have to offer it wasn’t summed up by the title of his class. I did, however, participate in one of the late-night salons in the living room of Sweeney House. Super Goat Man had begun appearing there casually, showing up after a few students had occupied the couches and lit a fire or opened a bottle of red wine. Increasingly, his presence was relied upon; soon he was the center of an unnamed tradition. Though Corcoran College was then in the midst of a wave of glamorous eighties-style binge parties, and cocaine had begun to infiltrate our sanctum in the New Hampshire woods, the Sweeney House salons were a return to an earlier temperature of college socializing. Bearded art students who disdained dancing in favor of bull sessions, Woolfian-Plathian girls in long vintage dresses, and lonely gay virgins of both genders—these were the types who found their way to Sweeney to sit at Super Goat Man’s feet. There were also, from what I observed, a handful of quiet superhero-comic-book fans who revered Super Goat Man in that capacity and were covertly basking in his aura, ashamed to ask the sorts of questions I’d peppered him with in his room in the communal house so long ago. The evening I sat in, Super Goat Man had dragged his phonograph out from his apartment and set it up in the living room so that he could play Lenny Bruce records for his acolytes. He spoke intermittently, his voice unhurried and reflective, explaining the context of the famous comedian’s arrests and courtroom battles before dropping the needle on a given track. After a while, conversation drifted to other subjects. Cross talk arose, though whenever Super Goat Man began to speak, in his undemonstrative way, all fell deferentially silent. Then Super Goat Man went into his apartment and brought out an Ornette Coleman LP. “You know a bit about jazz, don’t you, Everett?” It was the first time he’d addressed me directly. I hadn’t known he’d recognized me. “A thing or two, I guess.” “Everett’s father was the one who turned me on to Rahsaan Roland Kirk,” Super Goat Man told a teen-ager I recognized, a bespectacled sophomore who’d impressively talked his way into a classics seminar that was meant for upperclassmen. “I always thought that stuff was too gimmicky, but I’d never really listened.” I tried to imagine when Super Goat Man and my dad had spent so much time together. It was almost impossible to picture, but Super Goat Man didn’t have any reason to be lying about it. It was one of the first times I was forced to consider the possibility that my parents had social lives—that they had lives. “Does your father write about jazz?” the sophomore asked me, wide-eyed. I suppose he’d misunderstood Super Goat Man’s remark. There were plenty of famous—or at least interesting—fathers at Corcoran College, but mine wasn’t one of them. “My father works for New York State,” I said. “Department of Housing and Urban Development. Well, he just lost his job, in fact.” “He’s a good five-card-stud player, too,” said Super Goat Man. “Cleaned me out a few times, I don’t mind saying.” “Oh, yeah, my dad’s a real supervillain,” I said with the heaviest sarcasm I could muster. I was embarrassed to think of my father sucking up to Super Goat Man, as he surely had during their long evenings together, whoever had taken the bulk of the chips. Then the squeaky jazz began playing, and Super Goat Man, though seated in one of the dormitory’s ratty armchairs, closed his eyes and began shaking his head as if transported back to the commune’s dance floor, or perhaps to some even earlier time. I studied his face. The tufts around his ears and throat were graying. I puzzled over his actual age. Had Super Goat Man once spent decades frozen in a block of ice, like Captain America? If Ralph Gersten had been a college teacher in the fifties, he was probably older than my dad. Eight months later, the campus was green again. The term was almost finished, all of us nearly freed to summer, when it happened: the incident at the Campanile. A Saturday, late in a balmy night of revels, the Commons lawn full of small groups crossing from dorm to dorm, cruising the parties that flared like bonfires in the landscape of the campus. Many of us still owed papers, others would have to sit in a final class the following Monday, but the mood was one of expulsive release from our labors. It was nearly three in the morning when Rudy Krugerrand and Seth Brummell, two of the wealthiest and most widely reviled frat boys at Corcoran, scaled the Campanile and began bellowing. I was among those awake and near enough by to be drawn by the commotion into the small crowd at the dark base of the Campanile tower. When I first gazed up at Rudy and Seth, I was confused by what I saw: were there four figures spotlit against the clock beneath the bells? And where were the campus authorities? It was as though this night had been officially ceded to some bacchanalian imperative. That spring, a sculpture student had, as his thesis project, decorated the Commons with oversized office supplies—a stapler in the dimensions of a limousine, a log painted as a No. 2 pencil, and a pile of facsimile paper clips, each the height of a human being, fashioned out of plastic piping and silver paint. I suppose the work was derivative of Claes Oldenburg, but the result made an impressive spectacle. It was two of the paper-clip sculptures that Rudy Krugerrand and Seth Brummell had managed to attach to their belts like mannequin dance partners and drag with them out onto the ledge of the Campanile clock, where they stood now, six stories from the ground. Their faces uplit in the floodlights, Rudy and Seth were almost like players in the climax of some gothic silent-film drama, but they didn’t have the poise or imagination to know it. They were only college pranksters, reeling drunk, Seth with a three-quarters-empty bottle of Jack Daniel’s still in his hand, and at first it was hard to make out what they were shouting. We on the ground predictably shouted “Jump!” back at them, knowing that they loved themselves too dearly ever to consider it. Then Rudy Krugerrand’s slurred voice rose above the din—or perhaps it was only that I picked it out of the din for the first time. “Calling Super Goat Man! Calling Super Goat Man!” He shouted this until his voice broke hoarse. “This looks like a job for Super Goat Man! Come out, come out, wherever you are!” “What’s going on?” I asked a student beside me. He shrugged. “I guess they’re calling out Super Goat Man. They want to see if he can get them down from the ledge.” “What do you mean?” “They want to see him use his powers.” From the clock tower, Seth Brummell screamed now, in a girlish falsetto, “Oh, Super Goat Man, where are you?” A stirring had begun in the crowd, which had grown to a hundred or more. A murmuring. Under the guise of concern for Rudy and Seth, but certainly with a shiver of voyeuristic anticipation, some had begun to speak of going to the Sweeney House apartment to see if Super Goat Man could be found. There was a hint of outrage: Why wasn’t he here already? What kind of Super Goat Man was he, anyway? Now a group of fifteen or twenty broke out and streamed down the hill toward Sweeney House. Others trailed after them, myself included. I hid in the crowd, feeling like an observer, though I suppose I was as complicit as anyone. Were we only curious, or part of a mob? It seemed, anyway, that we were under the direction of Rudy and Seth. “That’s right,” mocked Rudy. “Only Super Goat Man can save us now!” Those who’d led the charge hammered on Super Goat Man’s apartment door for a good few minutes before getting a result. Bold enough to have woken him, they inched backward at the sight of him on his threshold, dressed only in a flowery silk kimono, blinking groggily at the faces arrayed on the hill. Then someone stepped forward, took his arm, and pointed him toward the Campanile. Any conversation was drowned by the sound of sirens, as the campus police belatedly pulled up to the tower. Super Goat Man shook his head sorrowfully, but he began the trek up the hill toward the Campanile. We all fell in around and behind him, emboldened at marching to the beat of a superhero’s step, feeling the pulse of the script that it now appeared would be played out, and ignoring the fact that it had been written by Rudy and Seth and Jack Daniel’s. Super Goat Man’s kimono fluttered slightly, not quite a cape. He tightened the sash, then strode, rubbing at his eyes with balled fists. This success seemed only to enrage Rudy and Seth, who writhed and scorned from atop their perch. “Baaahh, baaahh, Super Goat Man!” they roared. “What’s the matter with your goaty senses? Smoke too much dope tonight? Fuck you, Super Goat Man!” Seth lifted his giant paper clip above his head and shook it like a fake strongman’s prop barbell. The campus police had begun to herd the students away from the base of the tower, but our arriving throng pushed the opposite way. In the confusion, the young policemen seemed utterly helpless, and fell back. Straining on tiptoe to see over the heads of the crowd, I followed the progress of the lime-green kimono as Super Goat Man was thrust to the fore, not necessarily by his own efforts. Above, Seth was strumming air-guitar chords on his paper clip, then waggling it over our heads like an enormous phallus. “Bite my crank, Super Goat Man!” The crowd gasped as Super Goat Man shed his garb—for mobility, I suppose—and started shimmying, almost scampering, up the face of the tower. His pelt was glossy in the moonlight, but nobody could have mistaken the wide streak of white above his dusky buttocks for sheen. Super Goat Man was aging. He scurried through the leaf-blobby shade that a tree branch cast against the side of the tower, then back into the light. Whether it was the pressure of expectation on a still sleepy mind or possibly a genuine call to heroics, a hope that he could do some good here, Super Goat Man had taken the bait. His limbs worked miraculously as he ascended the tower, yet one could only dread what would happen if he reached the idiot boys at the top, who were growing more agitated and furious with every inch he achieved. Rudy had lifted his own paper clip, to match Seth, and now he swung it out over us. The plummet silenced us. It was over before we could swallow our words and form a cry to replace them. Six stories is no distance at all. Rudy’s paper clip had overbalanced him. Super Goat Man had braced three limbs, and reached out with a fourth—some of us saw, others only imagined afterward—but he didn’t come away with Rudy. Super Goat Man caught the paper clip in mid-flight with the prehensile toes of his left foot, and the sculpture was jerked free from Rudy as he fell. That’s how firm was Super Goat Man’s hold on the tower’s third story: it was left for later to speculate whether he might have been able to halt a human body’s fall. Rudy came to earth, shattering at the feet of the policemen there at the tower’s base. Now the nude furry figure could only undertake a sober, methodical descent, paper clip tucked beneath one arm. At the clockface, Seth Brummell was mute, clinging to a post, waiting for the security men who would soon unlock the small door in the tower behind him and angrily yank him to safety. Rudy Krugerrand survived his fall. It cost him the use of his legs, cost him all feeling below some point at his middle. Only a junior, he rather courageously reappeared in a motorized wheelchair the following September, resumed his studies, resumed drinking, too, though his temperament had mellowed. He’d be seen at parties dozing in the corner after the dance floor had filled—it took very little beer to knock his dwindled body out. If Rudy had died, or never returned, the incident likely would have been avidly discussed, etched into campus legend. Instead it was covered in a clumsy hush. The coexistence in the same small community of Rudy and Super Goat Man—who’d been offered a seat in the social sciences, and accepted—created a kind of odd, insoluble puzzle: Had the hero failed the crisis? Caused it, by some innate provocation? Or was the bogus crisis unworthy, and the outcome its own reward? Who’d shamed whom? I contemplated this koan, or didn’t, for just another year. My graduate studies took me to the University of California, Irvine, three thousand grateful miles from Corcoran. I didn’t see Super Goat Man or think of him again for more than a decade. The sweetest student I ever had was an Italian girl named Angela Verucci. Tall, bronze-skinned, with a quizzical, slightly humorless cast, dressed no matter the weather in neat pants suits or skirts with stockings, she wore heavy tortoiseshell eyeglasses and kept her blond hair knit in a tight, almost Japanese bun. She had an aura of seriousness and a Mediterranean lustre that outshone to near-invisibility the blandly corn-fed and T-shirted students in whose midst she had materialized. Angela Verucci was not so much a girl, really: twenty-four years old, she’d studied at Oxford before winning the Reeves Fellowship that brought her to America. She spoke immaculate English, and though her accreditation was a mess, she was nearly as accomplished a medievalist as I was the day she appeared in my class. This was at Oregon State University, in Corvallis, where I’d been given a two-year postdoc after my six years at Irvine. Oregon State was the third stop in Angela Verucci’s American tour—she’d spent a year at Columbia and, as it happened, a term at Corcoran. What does a single thirty-year-old history professor do with the sweetest student he’s ever had? He waits until the end of the semester, then he asks her out. We were married two years later. I was at Rutgers by then, on a second postdoc, and hungry for a tenure-track position. My job interviews weren’t exactly unsuccessful: I was never summarily dismissed. Instead I was always called back for second and third visits, always asked to teach a sample class. Afterward, polite notes flew back and forth, candidate and committee reassuring each other of how fine the experience had been, how glad we both were to have met. Only I never got a job. By the time I got the invitation to interview for a position at Corcoran, the New England pastures of my alma mater didn’t look like such a poor fate. It was the week of Halloween, the weather glorious, so at the very least the day of the interview would be a nice jaunt. We left early, to roam a few New Hampshire back roads, then ate a picnic lunch beside Corcoran Pond before I checked in for an afternoon of meetings. Corcoran looked implacable, though I knew it was changed. The school had been through financial shakeups and tenure scandals that had, in turn, purged most of the administrators and faculty I’d known. But the grounds, the crab-apple trees and white clapboard, were as eternal as a country-store calendar. While Angela took a memory tour, heading for her old dorm, I showed up for my scheduled tribunal. There I was debriefed by peers, a couple of them younger than myself. The room was full of the usual tensions: some of these people had an investment in my candidacy, some had bets on other tables. No one was in the least sentimental about my status as an alumnus—that was reserved, I supposed, for the dinner that night, arranged in my honor at the President’s House. After a final round of polite handclasps, I was ferried to the president’s office for a private meeting. I figured this was a good sign. The president asked how I felt about the interview; we made this and other small talk. She asked about my years at Corcoran, which I painted in rosy tones. Then she said, “Did you know Super Goat Man when you were a student here?” “Sure,” I said. “I mean, I never took a class with him.” “He surprised me by asking to join us at the dinner tonight—he doesn’t usually bother with faculty socializing anymore.” “He’s still here?” I was amazed that Super Goat Man, of all people, had threaded his way through so many personnel shakeups. “Yes, though he’s reduced to a kind of honorary presence. He doesn’t actually teach now. I don’t know if he’d be capable of it. But he’s beloved. The students joke that he can be spotted strolling across Commons lawn twice a semester. And that if you want to get any time with him you can join him on the stroll.” “He recognized my name?” “He seemed to, yes. You should prepare yourself. He’s quite infirm.” “How—how old is he?” “Measured in years, I don’t know. But there’s been an accelerated aging process. You’ll see.” Perhaps superheroism was a sort of toxin, like a steroid, one with a punitive cost to the body. I mused on this as I crossed the Commons and headed through the parking lot and downhill to find the bench beside Corcoran Creek, a favorite spot, where Angela had said she’d wait. I saw my wife before she saw me, her feet tucked up on the slats, abandoned shoes beneath, her body curled around a big hardback biography of Rousseau. In the distance, dying October light drew long saddle-shaped curves on the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Suddenly, I could picture us here for a long time, and picture it happily. “How did it go?” she asked when she noticed me. “Par: two friends, two enemies, one sleeper.” “And the president?” “Nice, but she wasn’t giving anything away.” She closed the book. “You seem distant,” she said. “Memories?” “Yes.” In fact, I was thinking about Super Goat Man. I’d never before considered the sacrifice he’d made by enunciating his political views so long ago. Fruitlessly, it seemed to me. What had he gained in exchange for his iconic, trapped-in-amber status? Had Super Goat Man really accomplished much outside the parameters of his comics? However unglamorous the chores, didn’t kittens need rescuing from trees? Didn’t Vest Man require periodic defeating? Why jettison Ralph Gersten if in the end all you attained was the life of a campus mascot? I wanted to convey some of this to Angela, but didn’t know where to begin. “When you were here,” I said, “did you know Super Goat Man?” I saw her stiffen. “Of course. Everybody knew him,” she said. “He’s still here.” I watched her as I spoke. Her gaze dipped to the ground. “You saw him?” “No, but we will at dinner tonight.” “How . . . unexpected.” Now Angela was the one in fugue. “Did you study with him?” “He rarely taught. I attended a few talks.” “I thought you didn’t like that stuff.” She shrugged. “I was curious.” I waited to understand. Crickets had begun a chorus in the grass. Soon we’d need to visit our off-campus bed-and-breakfast, to change into fresh clothes for the dinner party. Ordinarily such gatherings were clumsy at best, with grudges incompletely smothered under the surface of the talk, among tenured faculty who knew one another far too well. Something in me now curdled at the prospect of this one. In fact, I’d begun to dread it. “Everett.” There was something Angela wanted to tell me. I made a preëmptive guess. “Did you have some sort of thing with Super Goat Man?” This was how she and I blundered through each other’s past liaisons—we’d never been systematic. “Just an—affair. Nothing.” “What’s nothing?” She shrugged, and flipped her fingers as though dispelling a small fog. “We fooled around a few times. It was stupid.” I felt the poison of bitterness leach into my bloodstream. “I don’t know why, but I find that totally disgusting.” “Oh, Everett.” Angela raised her arms, moved to assuage me, knowing as she did my visceral possessiveness, the bolt of jealousy that shot through me when contemplating her real past, anytime it arose. Of course she couldn’t understand my special history with Super Goat Man. How could she if I didn’t? I’d never even mentioned him. “I was a silly girl.” She spoke gently. “And I didn’t know you yet.” Unsatisfied, I wished her to declare that the encounter had been abusive, an ethical violation. Not that I had any ground to stand on. Anyway, she was Italian in this, as in all things. It was just an affair. “Do you want to skip the dinner?” She scowled. “That’s unnecessary. He wouldn’t even remember. And I don’t care. It’s really nothing, my darling. My love.” At the president’s house, Super Goat Man was the last to arrive, so I was allowed briefly to fantasize that I’d been spared. The sight, when he did come in, was startling. He’d not only aged but shrunk—I doubted if he was even five feet tall. He was, as ever, barefoot, and he wore white muslin pajamas with purple piping. The knees of the pajama bottoms were smudged with mud. As he entered the room, creeping in amid us as we stood with our cocktail glasses, I quickly saw the reason for the smudges: as Super Goat Man’s rickety steps faltered, he dropped briefly to all fours. There, on the ground, he shook himself, like a wet dog. Then he rose again, on palsied limbs. No one took notice of this. The guests, the other faculty, were inured, polite. In this halting manner, Super Goat Man made his way past us to the dining room. Apparently he wasn’t capable of mingling, or even necessarily of speech. He took a seat at the long table, his bunched face, his squinting eyes and wrinkled horns, nearly at the level of his place setting. We began drifting in behind him, almost guiltily. The president’s husband showed us to our places, which had been carefully designated, though an accommodation was evidently being made for Super Goat Man, who’d plopped down where he liked and wasn’t to be budged. I was at the right hand of the president, and the left of the chair of the hiring committee. Another good sign. Angela sat across from me, Super Goat Man many places away, at the other end of the table. I actually managed to forget him for the duration of the meal. He was, so far as I could tell, silent at his feed, and the women on either side of him turned to their other partners or conversed across the width of the table. Toward the end, we were served Cognac and dessert, and the president’s husband passed around cigars, which he bragged were Cuban. Some of the women fled their chairs to avoid the smoke; other guests rose and mingled in the corners of the room. It was in this interval of disarrangement that Super Goat Man pushed himself off his chair and made his way to the seat at my left, which the president had vacated. He had to collapse to his knees only once on the way, and he offered no evidence of sacrificed dignity as he rose from the floor. Angela remained in her seat. Unlike any of the American women, she’d accepted a cigar, and now leaned it into the flame of a lighter proffered by an older professor she’d been entertaining throughout the meal. Her eyes found mine as Super Goat Man approached. Her expression was curious, and not unsympathetic. Super Goat Man prodded my arm with a finger. I turned and considered him. Black pupils gleamed behind a hedge of eyebrows. His resplendent tufts had thinned and spread—the hair of his face had been redistributed, to form a merciful gauze across his withered features. “I . . . knew . . . your . . . father.” His voice was mossy, sepulchral. “Yes,” I said simply, keeping my voice low. No one was paying any attention to us, yet, apart from Angela. “You . . . remember . . . ?” “Of course.” “We . . . love . . . jazz . . .” I wondered whether he meant my father or, somehow, me. I had in fact over the years come around to my father’s love of jazz, though my preference was not so much Ornette Coleman and Rahsaan Roland Kirk as Duke Ellington and Fletcher Henderson. “. . . poker . . .” “He cleaned you out,” I reminded him. “Yezz . . . good times . . . beautiful women . . .” He struggled, swallowed hard, blinked. “All this controversy . . . not worth it . . .” “My father was never involved in any controversy,” I heard myself say, though I knew Super Goat Man was speaking only of himself, his lost career. “No . . . absolutely true . . . knew how to live . . .” Angela had leaned back, pursing her lips to savor the cigar. I might have noticed that the room’s gabble of conversation had dampened somewhat—might have noticed sooner, I mean. “So . . . many . . . hangovers . . .” “But you and I have something in common besides my father,” I told Super Goat Man. “Yezz . . . yezz . . . ?” “Of course we do,” I began, and though I now understood that we had the attention of the entire room, that the novelty of Super Goat Man’s reminiscences had drawn every ear, I found myself unable to quit before I finished the thought. Further, having gained their attention, I allowed my voice to rise to a garrulous, plummy tone, as if I were starring in dinner theatre. Before the line was half out of my mouth, I knew that the words, by airing the sort of laundry so desperately repressed in a community as precious as Corcoran, damned my candidacy. But that was a prize I no longer sought. Broader repercussions I could only guess at. My wife’s eyes were on me now, her cigar’s blunt tip flaring. I’d answer to her later, if she gave me the chance. It was the worst thing I could think to say. The impulse had formed in the grip of sexual jealousy, of course. But before it crossed my lips I knew that my loathing had its origins in an even deeper place, in the mind of a child wondering at his father’s own susceptibility to the notion of a hero. What I said was this: “I once saw you rescue a paper clip.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Father Daughter	“I hope you share my alarm over the reports of sexual misconduct at the Air Force Academy.” “Oh, God, Dad, chill. We don’t date those dweebs.” Norton and Laura were lunching in a faux-French bistro in Colorado Springs, not far from the upscale private college where she was now a junior. His massive buffalo cheeseburger and her chicken salad had just been brought to the table by a server named Matthew, who had a silver thumbtack in his tongue and a ring in his nose. Norton had been tempted to ask his daughter the meaning behind these ornaments but was distracted by the thought that “chill” was the equivalent of his generation’s “cool it.” There were several Air Force cadets having Saturday lunch nearby with their glowing parents, but these particular young men, at least, didn’t seem to be burbling with surly lust. After three hungry bites, Norton let his mind drift in cheeseburger boredom while Laura tucked into her chicken. No one in his own, rural family—which had consisted of only his mother, his father, and himself—would ever have ordered chicken, an unclean fowl that you had to prepare with the utmost care, to avoid disease. Eating chicken in restaurants was part of Laura’s youthful rebellion, which had begun when she was about ten. The first time she had done it in front of her grandmother, the old woman broke into tears. “Are you coming up this summer?” He meant to Montana. “Maybe yes, maybe no.” “It’d be nice to go trout fishing. We used to go trout fishing.” “Five times, to be exact.” Laura liked to enumerate many things in her life, a habit that tended to irritate both her parents. “I’m selling the place you hated. I bought a simple place over near Reed Point. My ambition is to fish fifty days this summer.” “Why not fifty-one or forty-nine? You’re as bad as me. But I’m glad you’re getting rid of that hellhole.” She was referring to his ranch outside Bozeman, in an area where wealthy weekenders had now replaced nearly all of the local ranchers. On the second day of her visit the previous summer, after a cocktail party at a neighbor’s five-million-dollar cabin, Laura had unloaded at length. Her diatribe was so acute and curious he’d copied it down in his journal that night, while she talked on the phone with her latest boyfriend. The core of it was that the transplanted rich in the new West were desperate to attach themselves to any American tradition that still had a shred of vitality—in this case, cattle ranching. They didn’t want to actually run cattle; they just wanted the feeling of ranching. For unclear reasons, they often built vast log homes—one had recently sold for twelve million dollars—which would have been unthinkable to real pioneers and ranchers, because of the difficulty of heating them. The houses were full of all sorts of non-indigenous flummery—Adirondack furniture, bibelots from the Southwest, native art from anywhere, since natives were largely interchangeable to these people. The men teetered in expensive cowboy boots and talked more loudly than they did back East; the women wore flowing, old-fashioned dresses to social occasions. Shiny S.U.V.s abounded. These people readily assumed the hard-bitten, right-wing opinions of the local ranchers, who, unlike them, had to live with long-term disappointment, owing to ever-declining cattle prices—even rich Americans are tightwads when it comes to meat. To Laura, it was all as ridiculous as the old photographs of Ronald Reagan chopping wood in a cowboy outfit. At the bistro, her eyes swept the room, expressing her wish to be elsewhere. Norton suspected that his burger was inferior to the prison food he had become accustomed to. He sensed a specific lacuna of warmth, of any viable contact with his daughter, and this sensation caused a lump to rise in his throat. Then, miraculously, she smiled at him. “As you used to say, let’s blow this popsicle stand.” When they left, Matthew, their server, winked at Norton, as if Laura were a girlfriend rather than a daughter. An hour later, they were beginning their second Martinis at a student bar. The first had made Norton mildly sentimental, but not Laura. He was trying to prod her into agreeing to visit over the summer, but she remained evasive. She hadn’t decided whether to look for a job in New York or in Los Angeles, and he was irritated by the distance of both cities from Montana, unaware that Laura, at age twenty-one, spent very little time pondering his loneliness. “Do you feel you paid your debt to society?” she asked with a silly smile. “My friends thought it was so dramatic that I had a dad in prison.” He knew that she was only avoiding the subject of summer plans, but he felt cornered. A middlingly successful venture capitalist, he had believed himself so accomplished at financial sleights of hand that not even the gods of commerce could have seen what he was doing, if they happened to be watching, which they weren’t. Or so he’d thought. The I.R.S. had pinned him like a butterfly, and, after spending seven hundred thousand dollars on legal fees to lessen the charges, he’d bitten the bullet, paid his fines, and done his time. Less than a month had passed since his release from a nine-month stint for tax evasion at a federal prison in Milan, Michigan. “The judge told me that I’d stolen from democracy. I ended up paying more than triple what I’d evaded. So that should make us even.” “I know a boy who’s going to end up doing three to five years for possessing a pound of pot in Texas. I think you got off easy.” “You don’t expect parity from God or the Supreme Court, do you?” he quipped, increasingly nervous as he caught her looking at her watch. “I have to say that you seem different. I’m not sure how.” “I became ethical, and that caused a large drain on my energies. I learned in college that I was supposed to make money, but I never learned what to do with it. I just made money from other people like myself. It was like a fraternity poker game.” “How depressing!” Now she was yawning. “My professor said that your type used to be looked at with a less friendly eye. Now the media treat swindlers like cultural heroes. They lick the boots of the newly rich. That’s what he said, anyway.” “How do I seem different?” He was mildly afraid of the answer. “You’re less spiffy and less of a smart-aleck. We’ve been together for two whole hours and you haven’t talked on your cell phone.” “I left it in the car on purpose.” So far, so good. Like her mother, Laura could be terrifying when on a critical bent. “You seem more defeated by life. Your hair is less trim than I remember it. Your eyes haven’t flickered off to look at the college girls at the bar. You haven’t said a thing about money. You haven’t asked about Mom. She thinks it’s funny that you’re still paying her alimony when you could have quit three years ago, after I turned eighteen.” “It’s dead money, anyway,” he said lamely. “Dead money?” She waved at a friend who was entering the tavern. “Money I’d never get around to spending.” The friend, a pretty blond girl, stopped to say hello to Laura but moved on quickly before she could be introduced. “A black man I made friends with in prison—a mob accountant from Detroit—said that he’d never been attracted to blondes, because they looked sort of boiled.” “Boiled? That’s weird.” “I thought so, too.” He was still hoping that there wouldn’t be a punch line in her current assessment of his character. “Anything else?” he asked. “Well, yes. I hope this doesn’t offend you, but you remind me more of your dad. You remember how Grandpa always seemed on the verge of saying something important but then he never did? He was so, you know, northern Wisconsin Lutheran. When I was at camp up by Rhinelander, my friend Marcia showed her butt to this Swedish Lutheran stableboy, and you know what he said?” “No.” He was remembering the naughty but lovely Marcia, whom he had met several times. “The boy said, ‘Goodness gracious,’ and went right on pitching hay.” The word “flummoxed” came into Norton’s head. He desperately didn’t want to remind Laura of his father, a kindly but maudlin man who had never recovered from having sold the back eighty acres of his family farm in an ill-advised attempt to enter the trucking business—he’d thought that U.S. Route 2 would become an interstate, but it never did. Another forty acres had been sold in order to send Norton to college, in Madison, and now his mother lived in the farmhouse on the remaining forty, seemingly much more cheerful than when her husband had been alive. Norton’s preposterous success had astounded his father, without ever making him particularly happy. One time, when his parents had come to visit him in Chicago, Norton had reserved a suite for them at the Drake, and his father had traded it in for a regular room. “Are you here? I didn’t mean to stun you.” Laura was waving a hand in front of his face. He was reminded of something that Frank, the black accountant, had said: that a nine-month sentence (which was what Frank was serving as well) was the gestation period it took for a middle-aged man to become an entirely new creature, one that he hadn’t planned, or might not want, to be. Sure enough, as they used to say, it had happened. “I will use any means possible to avoid becoming like my father,” Norton said. “It’s no big deal. I didn’t say you were exactly like him. Grandma is positively effervescent compared to him. You got her genes, too.” “I bought her a Camry last week and she said thanks, but she didn’t need a radio in the car. It took me half an hour to explain to her that all new cars come with radios.” Laura thought this was very funny, but Norton was just trying to buy time, having discerned that a dark-skinned, nicely dressed young man at the bar was clearly Laura’s boyfriend, waiting for the visit to be over. “You could come up for a week in June, when school finishes.” “I’ve got tickets with my boyfriend to meet his parents in Santa Barbara. I haven’t met them yet.” “Well, I haven’t met him yet.” “You will in about ten minutes.” He noted that, like her mother, Laura was unpleasantly shrewd in the way she framed time for her own purposes. It was now ten to three, and their visit had clearly been slotted in from noon to three. In the past, all of their meetings had been of this nature, except for summer vacations. He had been an insanely busy and driven man, and now that he no longer was it appeared that she went on scheduling him in the same way, out of habit. “Where are you going from here?” she asked. His steady gaze had made her nervous. “Back to Reed Point. I have a man coming over from Livingston tomorrow to help get rid of the rattlesnakes. I’ve shot seventeen, but I’m at the foot of the canyon and there must be a rattler den up in back.” Just the other day, he had found two arrowheads and shot three snakes in one afternoon, which was what his longtime secretary would have called “multitasking.” She had wept bitterly when the judge sentenced him, and had now retreated from Chicago to Joplin, Missouri, to take care of her aging parents. “One thing I wanted you to see,” he told Laura, “is that I’m living in a double-wide trailer. I had four big houses built in twelve years, and I didn’t like any of them. I didn’t lose a dime on those houses, but, oddly enough, I love this place. I can see the Yellowstone River from the living room.” “You lost a lot on those houses, if you think of all the time you spent dicking around with architects, builders, and decorators. It was, like, all your spare time.” He drooped at this comment, and she changed direction. “Just think how Mom would screech if she knew that you were shooting rattlesnakes. Rattlesnakes are natural, not to mention organic.” Laura’s mother was a leading environmentalist fund-raiser and was shrill in her defense of the lowliest living creatures. She and Norton had divorced when Laura was ten, even though Norton hadn’t wanted to. The reasons had been of the banal we’re-growing-in-different-directions type, but Laura had always blamed it on her father’s financial greed. “I could send a plane for you. Just give me a few days’ warning.” He knew that this might be a cardinal mistake, but it was two minutes to three. “You’re living in a double-wide and you want to send a plane? Jesus, Dad. I’ll think about coming up, but it won’t be by charter. I mean, I doubt if I’ll make it. I just assumed that the I.R.S. had taken all your money.” “Not really.” He was about to tell her that the I.R.S. had got only nineteen per cent of the pie, but right then she motioned to the young man at the bar. Norton’s ears started humming and he didn’t catch the boy’s name. He stood to hug Laura goodbye, and she left, without giving him any reassurance that he would ever see her again. There were never any guarantees that those you supported would consent to see you. He hadn’t seen her mother since the divorce. A nanny—usually a college girl—had delivered Laura for vacations. Now alone, Norton looked down and felt mildly pleased that he had barely touched his Martini. The ice had melted. He thought of an old swindler down the hall in prison, who, twice a day, early in the morning and late in the evening, had sung the standard “Can’t You Hear Me Calling, Caroline.” No one knew if there was a real Caroline in the swindler’s life, but everyone suspected that it was the man’s wife. In any event, hearing the song became the least pleasant part of the day for most of Norton’s fellow-inmates. A relatively meek car dealer from Flint—also in for tax evasion—had repeatedly announced that he was going to “cut that asshole’s throat.” Out on the street, Norton strained to remember where he had parked his rental car. Before prison, these lapses would have been unthinkable. They were coming too early in life. He had turned fifty rather neatly at the turn of the millennium and now he had broken through into a place where he didn’t want to be—just like a drunk, in one of those subdivisions where all the houses look the same, battering down the door of the wrong house. Norton’s hubris apropos of the I.R.S. had interrupted an arc of life that had been clearly defined since he’d taken Economics 101, as a freshman. Leaving the prison, on a flight from Detroit to Denver, he had awakened from a brief snooze with the distinct feeling that the plane had stopped for a few moments in midair. No one else in the cabin appeared to have noticed it, but he was quite sure that it had happened. He stopped and did a casual three-sixty in front of a small lingerie shop where everything in the window was a ghastly shade of blue, the color of veins beneath skin. Now he remembered that he had left the car with the valet at the hotel across the square, in case Laura wanted to have dinner and he decided to stay the night. Safely in his car, he was confronted with the question that every human experiences at some time or other: What do I do next? He could drive to the airport, of course, but that didn’t seem good enough. It was a pleasant afternoon in May, and what was there to prevent him from driving all the way to Wisconsin to see his old mother (except that she couldn’t stop calling him “Mr. Big Shot”)? It wasn’t exactly fun to sit in downtown Colorado Springs wishing that you had brothers and sisters or that your wife had consented to have more than one child. He could drive north to Montana, turn in the car in Billings, then buy a used pickup to help conceal his identity. Over the past two weeks in Reed Point he had blown his double-wide cover with two different women. One had been a waitress from a fancy restaurant in Denver, who’d whistled when he served her a bottle of fine French wine; the other had quizzed him about his handmade English shoes. He would have to try much harder to bury his past. As he drove out of town, he tried to feel like an ex-con, a desperado ready to carve out a new life in the unfashionable wilds of Montana, but instead he kept thinking of crooked politicians who, when their misdeeds are revealed, decide “to seek opportunities in the private sector.” Like many of the major crimes of our era, his had been a matter of uncolorful numbers, on which it was difficult to base a fantasy. His boyhood ambitions had been either to be a long-haul trucker with a willing waitress in every state or to own a gas station, like Percy Conrad did, with an old-time grease rack that moved up and down with a throaty hiss. When Percy wanted to go fishing, he simply hung a card that said “Gone Fishing” from a string on the knob on the front door. Any boy could see that this was a great life. One thing Norton knew for sure was how to avoid the life style of his ex-partner, Charlie, who had cashed out at just the right time in the nineties and bought a large farm in southern Illinois, where he raised and hunted pheasants, which he overfed to make them slow flyers. When tired of shooting lumbering birds, Charlie would fish in a hugely expensive pond that he had dug and filled with bass and bluegills. Norton searched his mind for the punch line of the joke about life being short but very wide. He could do anything he wanted in life, it seemed, except have dinner with his daughter. By the time he hit the noxious traffic of Denver, he had become contemptuous of his own muddiness. There was nothing like family to throw you off-kilter. His parents had been bitterly disappointed at his divorce. His mother had told him that she was ashamed of him, and his father, suspecting infidelity as a cause, had droned, “Son, it’s better to climb the same mountain a hundred times than a hundred different mountains.” This kind of otiose country wisdom had always baffled him, and he thought of dreary church potluck suppers, where the strident problems of the outside world were dismissed with a chuckle. He was well past Fort Collins and on the outskirts of Cheyenne when he began to feel teary. A dozen legal procedures, plus the sentence itself, had dug a three-year hole in his life—oddly, the same amount of time it had taken for his divorce to come through. It had been at least that long, he realized, since Laura had been, in any respect, her daddy’s little girl. After her high-school graduation he had wanted to buy her a BMW. Instead, she had chosen a Subaru. It was no easy thing to imagine a new life just because the previous one had lost its savor. Norton recalled with irritation how, when he was back in high school, an inspirational speaker, a flashy woman from Chicago, had told his class, “You northern kids fly too close to the ground.” Right now he wasn’t sure if he was landing or taking off. He was simply trying to proceed with grace. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Passion	Credit Photograph by Alice Attie When Grace goes looking for the Traverses’ summer house, in the Ottawa Valley, it has been many years since she was in that part of the country. And, of course, things have changed. Highway 7 now avoids towns that it used to go right through, and it goes straight in places where, as she remembers, there used to be curves. This part of the Canadian Shield has many small lakes, which most maps have no room to identify. Even when she locates Sabot Lake, or thinks she has, there seem to be too many roads leading into it from the county road, and then, when she chooses one, too many paved roads crossing it, all with names that she does not recall. In fact, there were no street names when she was here, more than forty years ago. There was no pavement, either—just one dirt road running toward the lake, then another running rather haphazardly along the lake’s edge. Now there is a village. Or perhaps it’s a suburb, because she does not see a post office or even the most unpromising convenience store. The settlement lies four or five streets deep along the lake, with houses strung close together on small lots. Some of them are undoubtedly summer places—the windows already boarded up, as they always were for the winter. But many others show all the signs of year-round habitation—habitation, in many cases, by people who have filled the yards with plastic gym sets and outdoor grills and training bikes and motorcycles and picnic tables, where some of them sit now having lunch or beer on this warm September day. There are other people, not so visible—students, maybe, or old hippies living alone—who have put up flags or sheets of tinfoil for curtains. Small, mostly decent, cheap houses, some fixed to withstand the winter and some not. Grace would have turned back if she hadn’t caught sight of the octagonal house with the fretwork along the roof and doors in every other wall. The Woods house. She has always remembered it as having eight doors, but it seems there are only four. She was never inside, to see how, or if, the space is divided into rooms. Mr. and Mrs. Woods were old—as Grace is now—and did not seem to be visited by any children or friends. Their quaint, original house now has a forlorn, mistaken look. Neighbors with their ghetto blasters and their half-dismembered vehicles, their toys and washing, are pushed up against either side of it. It is the same with the Travers house, when she finds it, a quarter of a mile farther on. The road goes past it now, instead of ending there, and the houses next door are only a few feet away from its deep, wraparound veranda. It was the first house of its kind that Grace had ever seen—one story high, the roof continuing without a break out over that veranda, on all sides—a style that makes you think of hot summers. She has since seen many like it, in Australia. It used to be possible to run from the veranda across the dusty end of the driveway, through a sandy, trampled patch of weeds and wild strawberries, and then jump—no, actually, wade—into the lake. Now Grace can hardly even see the lake, because a substantial house—one of the few regular suburban houses here, with a two-car garage—has been built across that very route. What was Grace really looking for when she undertook this expedition? Perhaps the worst thing would have been to find exactly what she thought she was after—the sheltering roof, the screened windows, the lake in front, the stand of maple and cedar and balm-of-Gilead trees behind. Perfect preservation, the past intact, when nothing of the kind could be said of herself. To find something so diminished, still existing but made irrelevant—as the Travers house now seems to be, with its added dormer windows, its startling blue paint—might be less hurtful in the long run. And what if it had been gone altogether? She might have made a fuss, if anybody had come along to listen to her; she might have bewailed the loss. But mightn’t a feeling of relief have passed over her, too, of old confusions and obligations wiped away? Mr. Travers had built the house—that is, he’d had it built—as a surprise wedding present for Mrs. Travers. When Grace first saw it, it was perhaps thirty years old. Mrs. Travers’s children were widely spaced: Gretchen, twenty-eight or twenty-nine, already married and a mother herself; Maury, twenty-one, going into his last year of college; and then there was Neil, in his mid-thirties. But Neil was not a Travers. He was Neil Borrow. Mrs. Travers had been married before, to a man who had died. For a few years, she had earned her living, and supported her child, as a teacher of business English at a secretarial school. Mr. Travers, when he referred to this period in her life before he’d met her, spoke of it as a time of hardship almost like penal servitude, something that would barely be made up for by a whole lifetime of comfort, which he would happily provide. Mrs. Travers herself didn’t speak of it that way at all. She had lived with Neil in a big old house broken up into apartments, not far from the railway tracks in the town of Pembroke, and many of the stories she told at the dinner table were about events there, about her fellow-tenants, and the French-Canadian landlord, whose harsh French and tangled English she imitated. The stories could have had titles, like the stories by James Thurber that Grace had read in “The Anthology of American Humor,” found unaccountably on the library shelf at the back of her grade-ten classroom. The Night Old Mrs. Cromarty Got Out on the Roof. How the Postman Courted Miss Flowers. The Dog Who Ate Sardines. Mr. Travers never told stories and had little to say at dinner, but if he came upon you looking, for instance, at the fieldstone fireplace he might say, “Are you interested in rocks?” and tell you how he had searched and searched for that particular pink granite, because Mrs. Travers had once exclaimed over a rock like that, glimpsed in a road cut. Or he might show you the not really unusual features that he personally had added to the house—the corner cupboard shelves swinging outward in the kitchen, the storage space under the window seats. He was a tall, stooped man with a soft voice and thin hair slicked over his scalp. He wore bathing shoes when he went into the water and, though he did not look fat in his clothes, a pancake fold of white flesh slopped over the top of his bathing trunks. Grace was working that summer at the hotel at Bailey’s Falls, just north of Sabot Lake. Early in the season, the Travers family had come to dinner there. She had not noticed them—it was a busy night, and they were not at one of her tables. She was setting up a table for a new party when she realized that someone was waiting to speak to her. It was Maury. He said, “I was wondering if you would like to go out with me sometime.” Grace barely looked up from shooting out the silverware. She said, “Is this a dare?” Because his voice was high and nervous, and he stood there stiffly, as if forcing himself. And it was known that sometimes a party of young men from the cottages would dare one another to ask a waitress out. It wasn’t entirely a joke—they really would show up, if accepted, though sometimes they only meant to park, without taking you to a movie or even for coffee. So it was considered rather shameful, rather hard up, of a girl to agree. “What?” he said painfully, and then Grace did stop and look at him. It seemed to her that she saw the whole of him in that moment, the true Maury. Scared, fierce, innocent, determined. “O.K.,” she said quickly. She might have meant, O.K., calm down, I can see it’s not a dare. Or, O.K., I’ll go out with you. She herself hardly knew which. But he took it as agreement, and at once arranged—without lowering his voice, or noticing the looks that he was getting from the diners around them—to pick her up after work the following night. He did take her to the movies. They saw “Father of the Bride.” Grace hated it. She hated girls like Elizabeth Taylor’s character—spoiled rich girls of whom nothing was ever asked but that they wheedle and demand. Maury said that it was just a comedy, but she told him that that was not the point. She could not quite make clear what her point was. Anybody would have assumed that it was because she worked as a waitress and was too poor to go to college, and because, if she wanted that kind of wedding, she would have to save up for years to pay for it herself. (Maury did think this, and was stricken with respect for her, almost with reverence.) She could not explain or even quite understand that it wasn’t jealousy she felt; it was rage. And not because she couldn’t shop like that or dress like that but because that was what girls were supposed to be like. That was what men—people, everybody—thought they should be like: beautiful, treasured, spoiled, selfish, pea-brained. That was what a girl had to be, to be fallen in love with. Then she’d become a mother and be all mushily devoted to her babies. Not selfish anymore, but just as pea-brained. Forever. Grace was fuming about this while sitting beside a boy who had fallen in love with her because he had believed—instantly—in the integrity and uniqueness of her mind and soul, had seen her poverty as a romantic gloss on that. (He would have known she was poor not just because of her job but because of her strong Ottawa Valley accent.) He honored her feelings about the movie. Indeed, now that he had listened to her angry struggles to explain, he struggled to tell her something in turn. He said he saw now that it was not anything so simple, so feminine, as jealousy. He saw that. It was that she would not stand for frivolity, was not content to be like most girls. She was special. Grace was wearing a dark-blue ballerina skirt, a white blouse, through whose eyelet frills the upper curve of her breasts was visible, and a wide rose-colored elasticized belt. There was a discrepancy, no doubt, between the way she presented herself and the way she wanted to be judged. But nothing about her was dainty or pert or polished, in the style of the time. A bit ragged around the edges, in fact. Giving herself Gypsy airs, with the very cheapest silver-painted bangles, and the long, wild-looking, curly dark hair that she had to put into a snood when she waited on tables. Special. He told his mother about her, and his mother said, “You must bring this Grace of yours to dinner.” It was all new to her, all immediately delightful. In fact, she fell in love with Mrs. Travers, almost exactly as Maury had fallen in love with her, though it was not in her nature, of course, to be as openly dumbfounded, as worshipful, as he was. Grace had been brought up by her aunt and uncle, really her great-aunt and great-uncle. Her mother had died when she was three years old, and her father had moved to Saskatchewan, where he now had another family. Her stand-in parents were kind, even proud of her. But they were not given to conversation. The uncle made his living caning chairs, and he had taught Grace how to cane so that she could help him and eventually take over the business when his eyesight failed. But then she had got the job at Bailey’s Falls for the summer, and though it was hard for him—and for her aunt as well—to let her go, they believed that she needed a taste of life before she settled down. She was twenty years old and had just finished high school. She should have finished a year earlier, but she had made an odd choice. In the very small town where she lived—it was not far from Mrs. Travers’s Pembroke—there was nevertheless a high school that offered five grades, to prepare students for the government exams and what was then called senior matriculation. It was never necessary to study all the subjects offered, and at the end of her first year in grade thirteen—what should have been her final year—Grace took examinations in history and botany and zoology and English and Latin and French, receiving unnecessarily high marks. But there she was in September, back again, proposing to study physics and chemistry, trigonometry, geometry, and algebra, though these subjects were considered particularly hard for girls. She did creditably well in all three branches of mathematics and in the sciences, though her results were not as spectacular as they had been the year before. She thought, then, of teaching herself Greek and Spanish and Italian and German, so that she could try those exams the following year—those subjects were not taught by any teacher at her school—but the principal took her aside and told her that this was getting her nowhere, since she was not going to be able to go to college, and, anyway, no college required such a full plate. Why was she doing it? Did she have any plans? No, Grace said, she just wanted to learn everything you could learn for free. Before she started her career of caning. It was the principal who knew the manager of the inn at Bailey’s Falls and said that he would put in a word for her if she wanted to try for a summer waitressing job. He, too, mentioned getting “a taste of life.” So even the man in charge of learning in that place did not believe that learning had to do with life. He thought that what she had done was crazy, as everyone else did. Except Mrs. Travers, who had been sent to business college, instead of a real college, in order to make herself useful, and who now wished like anything, she said, that she had crammed her mind first with what was useless. By trading shifts with another girl, Grace managed to get Sundays off, from breakfast on. This meant that she always worked late on Saturdays. In effect, it meant that she had traded time with Maury for time with Maury’s family. She and Maury could never see a movie now, never have a real date. Instead, he would pick her up when she got off work, around eleven at night, and they would go for a drive, stop for ice cream or a hamburger—Maury was scrupulous about not taking her into a bar, because she was not yet twenty-one—then end up parking somewhere. Grace’s memories of these parking sessions—which might last till one or two in the morning—proved to be much hazier than her memories of sitting at the Traverses’ round dining table or, after everybody had finally got up and moved, with coffee or fresh drinks, on the tawny leather sofa or the cushioned wicker chairs at the other end of the room. (There was never any fuss about doing the dishes; a woman Mrs. Travers called “the able Mrs. Abel” would come in the morning.) Maury always dragged cushions onto the rug and sat there. Gretchen, who never dressed for dinner in anything but jeans or Army pants, usually sat cross-legged in a wide chair. Both she and Maury were big and broad-shouldered, with something of their mother’s good looks—her wavy caramel-colored hair, warm hazel eyes, easily sun-browned skin. Even, in Maury’s case, her dimple. (The other waitresses called Maury “cute” and “hunky,” and respected Grace somewhat more since she had got him.) Mrs. Travers, however, was barely five feet tall, and under her bright muumuus seemed not fat but sturdily plump, like a child who hasn’t stretched up yet. And the shine, the intentness, of her eyes, the gaiety that was always ready to break out in them, had not been inherited. Nor had the rough red, almost a rash, on her cheeks, which was probably a result of going out in any weather without thinking about her complexion, and which, like her figure, like her muumuus, showed her independence. There were sometimes guests, in addition to Grace, on these Sunday evenings. A couple, maybe a single person as well, usually close to Mr. and Mrs. Travers’s age, and not unlike them. The women would be eager and witty, and the men quieter, slower, more tolerant. These people told amusing stories, in which the joke was often on themselves. (Grace has been an engaging talker for so long now that she sometimes gets sick of herself, and it’s hard for her to remember how novel these dinner conversations once seemed to her. On the rare occasions when her aunt and uncle had had company, there had been only praise of and apology for the food, discussion of the weather, and a fervent wish for the meal to be finished as soon as possible.) After dinner at the Travers house, if the evening was cool enough, Mr. Travers lit a fire, and they played what Mrs. Travers called “idiotic word games,” for which, in fact, people had to be fairly clever to win. Here was where somebody who had been rather quiet at dinner might begin to shine. Mock arguments could be built up in defense of preposterous definitions. Gretchen’s husband, Wat, did this, and so, after a bit, did Grace, to Mrs. Travers’s and Maury’s delight (with Maury calling out, to everyone’s amusement but Grace’s, “See? I told you. She’s smart”). Mrs. Travers herself led the way in this making up of ridiculous words, insuring that the play did not become too serious or any player too anxious. The only time there was a problem was one evening when Mavis, who was married to Mrs. Travers’s son Neil, came to dinner. Mavis and Neil and their two children were staying nearby, at her parents’ place down the lake. But that night she came by herself—Neil was a doctor, and he was busy in Ottawa that weekend. Mrs. Travers was disappointed, but she rallied, calling out in cheerful dismay, “But the children aren’t in Ottawa, surely?” “Unfortunately not,” Mavis said. “But they’re thoroughly awful. They’d shriek all through dinner. The baby’s got prickly heat, and God knows what’s the matter with Mikey.” She was a slim, suntanned woman in a purple dress, with a matching wide purple band holding back her dark hair. Handsome, but with little pouches of boredom or disapproval hiding the corners of her mouth. She left most of her dinner untouched on her plate, explaining that she had an allergy to curry. “Oh, Mavis. What a shame,” Mrs. Travers said. “Is this new?” “Oh, no. I’ve had it for ages, but I used to be polite about it. Then I got sick of throwing up half the night.” “If you’d only told me . . . What can we get you?” “Don’t worry about it. I’m fine. I don’t have any appetite anyway, what with the heat and the joys of motherhood.” She lit a cigarette. Afterward, in the game, she got into an argument with Wat over a definition he’d used, and when the dictionary proved it acceptable she said, “Oh, I’m sorry. I guess I’m just outclassed by you people.” And when it came time for everybody to hand in their own word on a slip of paper for the next round she smiled and shook her head. “I don’t have one.” “Oh, Mavis,” Mrs. Travers said. And Mr. Travers said, “Come on, Mavis. Any old word will do.” “But I don’t have any old word. I’m sorry. I just feel stupid tonight. The rest of you just play around me.” Which they did, everybody pretending that nothing was wrong, while she smoked and continued to smile her determined, unhappy smile. In a little while she got up and said that she couldn’t leave her children on their grandparents’ hands any longer. She’d had a lovely and instructive visit, and now she had to go home. “I must give you an Oxford dictionary next Christmas,” she said to nobody in particular before she left, with a merry, bitter little laugh. The Traverses’ dictionary, which Wat had used, was an American one. When she was gone, none of them looked at one another. Mrs. Travers said, “Gretchen, do you have the strength to make us all a pot of coffee?” And Gretchen went off to the kitchen, muttering, “What fun. Jesus wept.” “Well. Her life is trying,” Mrs. Travers said. “With the two little ones.” On Wednesdays, Grace got a break between clearing breakfast and setting up dinner, and when Mrs. Travers found out about this she started driving up to Bailey’s Falls to bring her down to the lake for those free hours. Maury would be at work then—he was spending the summer with the road gang repairing Highway 7—and Wat would be in his office in Ottawa and Gretchen would be off with the children, swimming or rowing on the lake. Usually Mrs. Travers herself would announce that she had shopping to do or letters to write, and she would leave Grace alone in the big, cool, shaded living-dining room, with its permanently dented leather sofa and crowded bookshelves. “Read anything that takes your fancy,” Mrs. Travers said. “Or curl up and go to sleep, if that’s what you’d like. It’s a hard job—you must be tired. I’ll make sure you’re back on time.” Grace never slept. She read. She barely moved, and her bare legs below her shorts became sweaty and stuck to the leather. Quite often she saw nothing of Mrs. Travers until it was time for her to be driven back to work. In the car, Mrs. Travers would not start any sort of conversation until enough time had passed for Grace’s thoughts to have shaken loose from whatever book she had been in. Then she might mention having read it herself, and say what she had thought of it—but always in a way that was both thoughtful and lighthearted. For instance, she said, of “Anna Karenina,” “I don’t know how many times I’ve read it, but I know that first I identified with Kitty, and then it was Anna—oh, it was awful with Anna—and now, you know, the last time, I found myself sympathizing with Dolly. When she goes to the country, you know, with all those children, and she has to figure out how to do the washing, there’s the problem about the washtubs—I suppose that’s just how your sympathies change as you get older. Passion gets pushed behind the washtubs. Don’t pay any attention to me, anyway. You don’t, do you?” “I don’t know if I pay much attention to anybody.” Grace was surprised at herself, wondered if she sounded conceited. “But I like listening to you talk.” Mrs. Travers laughed. “I like listening to myself, too.” Somehow, by the middle of the summer Maury had begun to talk about their being married. This would not happen for quite a while, he said—not until after he was qualified and working as an engineer—but he spoke of it as something that she, as well as he, must be taking for granted. “When we are married,” he’d say, and, instead of questioning or contradicting him, Grace would listen curiously. When they were married, they would have a place on Sabot Lake. Not too close to his parents, not too far away. It would be just a summer place, of course. The rest of the time they would live wherever his work might take them. It could be anywhere—Peru, Iraq, the Northwest Territories. Grace was delighted by the idea of such travels—rather more than she was by the idea of what he spoke of, with a severe pride, as “our own home.” None of this seemed at all real to her, but then the idea of helping her uncle, of taking on the life of a chair-caner in the town and in the very house where she had grown up, had never seemed real, either. Maury kept asking her what she had told her aunt and uncle about him, when she was going to take him home to meet them. In fact, she had said nothing in her brief weekly letters, except to mention that she was “going out with a boy who works around here for the summer.” She might have given the impression that he worked at the hotel. It wasn’t as if she had never thought of getting married. That possibility had been in her mind, along with the life of caning chairs. In spite of the fact that nobody had ever courted her, she had felt sure that it would happen someday, and in exactly this way—with the man making up his mind immediately. He would see her and, having seen her, he would fall in love. In her imagination, he was handsome, like Maury. Passionate, like Maury. Pleasurable physical intimacies followed. But this was the thing that had not happened. In Maury’s car, or out on the grass under the stars, she was willing. And Maury was ready, but not willing. He felt that it was his responsibility to protect her. And the ease with which she offered herself threw him off balance. He sensed, perhaps, that it was cold—a deliberate offering that he could not understand and that did not fit in at all with his notions of her. She herself did not realize how cold she was—she believed that her show of eagerness would lead to the pleasures she knew about, in solitude and in her imagination, and she felt that it was up to Maury to take over. Which he would not do. These sieges left them both disturbed and slightly angry or ashamed, so that they could not stop kissing, clinging, and using fond words to make it up to each other as they said good night. It was a relief to Grace to be alone, to get into bed in the hotel dormitory and blot the last couple of hours out of her mind. And she thought it must be a relief to Maury, too, to be driving down the highway by himself, rearranging his impressions of his Grace so that he could stay wholeheartedly in love with her. Most of the waitresses left after Labor Day, to go back to school or college. But the hotel was going to stay open till October, for Thanksgiving, with a reduced staff—Grace among them. There was talk, this year, of opening again in early December for a winter season, or at least a Christmas season, but nobody on the kitchen or dining-room staff seemed to know if this would really happen. Grace wrote to her aunt and uncle as if the Christmas season were a certainty and they should not expect her back anytime soon. Why did she do this? It was not as if she had other plans. Maury was in his final year at college. She had even promised to take him home at Christmas to meet her family. And he had said that Christmas would be a good time to make their engagement formal. He was saving up his summer wages to buy her a diamond ring. She, too, had been saving her wages, so that she would be able to take the bus to Kingston, to visit him during his school term. She spoke of this, promised it, so easily. But did she believe, or even wish, that it would happen? “Maury is a sterling character,” Mrs. Travers said. “Well, you can see that for yourself. He will be a dear, uncomplicated man, like his father. Not like his brother. Neil is very bright. I don’t mean that Maury isn’t—you certainly don’t get to be an engineer without a brain or two in your head—but Neil is . . . He’s deep.” She laughed at herself. “Deep unfathomable caves of ocean bear— What am I talking about? For a long time, Neil and I didn’t have anybody but each other. So I think he’s special. I don’t mean he can’t be fun. But sometimes people who are the most fun can be melancholy, can’t they? You wonder about them. But what’s the use of worrying about your grown-up children? With Neil I worry a lot, with Maury only a tiny little bit. And Gretchen I don’t worry about at all. Because women have always got something, haven’t they, to keep them going?” The house on the lake was never closed up till Thanksgiving. Gretchen and the children had to go back to Ottawa, of course, for school. And Maury had to go to Kingston. Mr. Travers could come out only on weekends. But Mrs. Travers had told Grace that she usually stayed on, sometimes with guests, sometimes by herself. Then her plans changed. She went back to Ottawa with Mr. Travers in September. This happened unexpectedly—the Sunday dinner that week was cancelled. Maury explained that his mother got into trouble, now and then, with her nerves. “She has to have a rest,” he said. “She has to go into the hospital for a couple of weeks or so, and they get her stabilized. She always comes out fine.” Grace said that Mrs. Travers was the last person she would have expected to have such troubles. “What brings it on?” “I don’t think they know,” Maury said. But after a moment he added, “Well. It could be her husband. I mean, her first husband. Neil’s father. What happened with him, et cetera.” What had happened was that Neil’s father had killed himself. “He was unstable, I guess. But I don’t know if it even is that. It could be her age, and female problems and all that sort of thing. But it’s O.K.—they can get her straightened out easy now, with drugs. They’ve got terrific drugs. Don’t worry about it.” By Thanksgiving, as Maury had predicted, Mrs. Travers was out of the hospital and feeling well. Thanksgiving dinner would take place at the lake, as usual. And it was being held on Sunday, instead of Monday—that was also customary, to allow for the packing up and closing of the house. And it was fortunate for Grace, because Sunday was still her day off. The whole family would be there, even Neil and Mavis and their children, who were staying at Mavis’s parents’ place. No guests—unless you counted Grace. By the time Maury brought her down to the lake on Sunday morning, the turkey was already in the oven. The pies were on the kitchen counter—pumpkin, apple, wild blueberry. Gretchen was in charge of the kitchen, as coördinated a cook as she was an athlete. Mrs. Travers sat at the kitchen table, drinking coffee and working on a jigsaw puzzle with Gretchen’s younger daughter, Dana. “Ah, Grace,” she said, jumping up for an embrace—the first time she had ever done this—and with a clumsy motion of her hand scattering the jigsaw pieces. Dana wailed, “Grand-ma,” and her older sister, Janey, who had been watching critically, scooped up the pieces. “We can easy put them back together,” she said. “Grandma didn’t mean to.” “Where do you keep the cranberry sauce?” Gretchen asked. “In the cupboard,” Mrs. Travers said, still squeezing Grace’s arms and ignoring the destroyed puzzle. “Where in the cupboard?” “Oh. Cranberry sauce,” Mrs. Travers said. “Well, I make it. First I put the cranberries in a little water. Then I keep it on low heat—no, I think I soak them first—” “Well, I haven’t got time for all that,” Gretchen said. “You mean you don’t have any canned?” “I guess not. I must not have, because I make it.” “I’ll have to send somebody to get some.” “Dear, it’s Thanksgiving,” Mrs. Travers said gently. “Nowhere will be open.” “That place down the highway, it’s always open.” Gretchen raised her voice. “Where’s Wat?” “He’s out in the rowboat,” Mavis called from the back bedroom. She made it sound like a warning, because she was trying to get her baby to sleep. “He took Mikey out in the boat.” Mavis had driven over in her own car, with Mikey and the baby. Neil was coming later—he had some phone calls to make. And Mr. Travers had gone golfing. “It’s just that I need somebody to go to the store,” Gretchen said. She waited, but no offer came from the bedroom. She raised her eyebrows at Grace. “You can’t drive, can you?” Grace said no. Mrs. Travers sat down, with a gracious sigh. “Well,” Gretchen said. “Maury can drive. Where’s Maury?” Maury was in the front bedroom looking for his swimming trunks, though everybody had told him that the water was too cold for swimming. He said that the store would not be open. “It will be,” Gretchen said. “They sell gas. And if it isn’t there’s that one just coming into Perth—you know, with the ice-cream cones.” Maury wanted Grace to come with him, but the two little girls, Janey and Dana, were begging her to come see the swing that their grandfather had put up under the Norway maple at the side of the house. As Grace was going down the steps, she felt the strap of one of her sandals break. She took both shoes off and walked without difficulty on the sandy soil, across the flat-pressed plantain and the many curled leaves that had already fallen. First she pushed the children in the swing, then they pushed her. It was when she jumped off, barefoot, that one leg crumpled and she let out a yelp of pain, not knowing what had happened. It was her foot, not her leg. The pain had shot up from the sole of her left foot, which had been cut by the sharp edge of a clamshell. “Dana brought those shells,” Janey said. “She was going to make a house for her snail.” “He got away,” Dana said. Gretchen and Mrs. Travers and even Mavis had come running out of the house, thinking that the cry had come from one of the children. “She’s got a bloody foot,” Dana said. “There’s blood all over the ground.” Janey said, “She cut it on a shell. Dana left those shells here—she was going to build a house for Ivan. Ivan her snail.” A basin was brought out, with water to wash the cut and a towel, and everyone asked how much it hurt. “Not too bad,” Grace said, limping to the steps, with both girls competing to hold her up and generally getting in her way. “Oh, that’s nasty,” Gretchen said. “But why weren’t you wearing your shoes?” “Broke her strap,” Dana and Janey said together, as a wine-colored convertible swerved neatly into the parking space by the house. “Now, that is what I call opportune,” Mrs. Travers said. “Here’s the very man we need. The doctor.” This was Neil—the first time that Grace had ever seen him. He was tall, thin, impatient. “Your bag,” Mrs. Travers cried gaily. “We’ve already got a case for you.” “Nice piece of junk you’ve got there,” Gretchen said. “New?” Neil said, “Piece of folly.” “Now the baby’s awake,” Mavis said, with a sigh of unspecific accusation. She went back into the house. “Don’t tell me you haven’t got it with you,” Mrs. Travers said. But Neil swung a doctor’s bag out of the back seat, and she said, “Oh, yes, you have. That’s good. You never know.” “You the patient?” Neil said to Dana. “What’s the matter? Swallow a toad?” “It’s her,” Dana said with dignity. “It’s Grace.” “I see. She swallowed the toad.” “She cut her foot.” “On a clamshell,” Janey said. Neil said, “Move over,” to his nieces, and sat on the step below Grace. He carefully lifted the foot and said, “Give me that cloth or whatever,” then blotted away the blood to get a look at the cut. Now that he was so close to her, Grace noticed a smell that she had learned to identify over the summer, working at the inn—the smell of liquor edged with mint. “Hurts?” he asked. Grace said, “Some.” He looked briefly, though searchingly, into her face. Perhaps wondering if she had caught the smell and what she had thought about it. “I bet. See that flap? We have to get under there and make sure it’s clean, then I’ll put a stitch or two in it. I’ve got some stuff I can rub on it, so that won’t hurt as much as you might think.” He looked up at Gretchen. “Hey. Let’s get the audience out of the way here.” He had not spoken a word, as yet, to his mother, who now said again what a good thing it was that he had come along just when he did. “Boy Scout,” he said. “Always prepared.” His hands didn’t feel drunk, and his eyes didn’t look it. Nor did he look like the jolly uncle he had impersonated when he talked to the children, or the purveyor of reassuring patter he had chosen to be with Grace. He had a high pale forehead, a crest of tight curly gray-black hair, bright gray but slightly sunken eyes, high cheekbones, and rather hollowed cheeks. If his face relaxed, he would look sombre and hungry. When the cut had been dealt with, Neil said that he thought it would be a good idea to run Grace into town, to the hospital. “For an anti-tetanus shot.” “It doesn’t feel too bad,” Grace said. Neil said, “That’s not the point.” “I agree,” Mrs. Travers said. “Tetanus—that’s terrible.” “We shouldn’t be long,” he said. “Here. Grace? Grace, I’ll get you to the car.” He held her under one arm. She had strapped on the good sandal, and managed to get her toes into the other, so that she could drag it along. The bandage was very neat and tight. “I’ll just run in,” he said, when she was sitting in the car. “Make my apologies.” Mrs. Travers came down from the veranda and put her hand on the car door. “This is good,” she said. “This is very good. Grace, you are a godsend. You’ll try to keep him away from drinking today, won’t you? You’ll know how to do it.” Grace heard these words, but didn’t give them much thought. She was too dismayed by the change in Mrs. Travers, by what looked like an increase in bulk, a stiffness in her movements, a random and rather frantic air of benevolence. And a faint crust showing at the corners of her mouth, like sugar. The hospital was three miles away. There was a highway overpass above the railway tracks, and they took this at such speed that Grace had the impression, at its crest, that the car had lifted off the pavement and they were flying. There was hardly any traffic, so she wasn’t frightened, and anyway there was nothing she could do. Neil knew the nurse who was on duty in Emergency, and after he had filled out a form and let her take a passing look at Grace’s foot (“Nice job,” she said without interest) he was able to go ahead and give the tetanus shot himself. (“It won’t hurt now, but it could later.”) Just as he finished, the nurse came back into the cubicle and said, “There’s a guy in the waiting room who wants to take her home.” She said to Grace, “He says he’s your fiancé.” “Tell him she’s not ready yet,” Neil said. “No. Tell him we’ve already gone.” “I said you were in here.” “But when you came back,” Neil said, “we were gone.” “He said he was your brother. Won’t he see your car in the lot?” “But I parked out back in the doctors’ lot.” “Pret-ty trick-y,” the nurse said, over her shoulder. And Neil said to Grace, “You didn’t want to go home yet, did you?” “No,” Grace said, as if she’d seen the word written in front of her, on the wall. As if she were having her eyes tested. Once more she was helped to the car, sandal flopping from the toe strap, and settled on the creamy upholstery. They took a back street out of the lot, an unfamiliar way out of town. She knew that they wouldn’t see Maury. She did not think of him. Still less of Mavis. Describing this passage, this change in her life, later on, Grace might say—she did say—that it was as if a gate had clanged shut behind her. But at the time there was no clang—acquiescence simply rippled through her, and the rights of those left behind were smoothly cancelled out. Her memory of this day remained clear and detailed for a long time, though there was a variation in the parts of it she dwelled on. And even in some of those details she must have been wrong. First they drove west, on Highway 7. In Grace’s recollection, there was not another car on the highway, and their speed approached the flight on the highway overpass. This cannot have been true—there must have been people on the road, people on their way home from church that Sunday morning, or on their way to spend Thanksgiving with their families. Neil must have slowed down when driving through villages, and around the many curves on the old highway. She was not used to driving in a convertible with the top down, wind in her eyes, taking charge of her hair. It gave her the illusion of constant perfect speed—not frantic but miraculous, serene. And though Maury and Mavis and the rest of the family had been wiped from her mind, some scrap of Mrs. Travers did remain, hovering, delivering in a whisper and with a strange, shamed giggle, her last message. You’ll know how to do it. Grace and Neil did not talk, of course. As she remembers it, you would have had to scream to be heard. And what she remembers is, to tell the truth, hardly distinguishable from her idea, her fantasies at that time, of what sex should be like. The fortuitous meeting, the muted but powerful signals, the nearly silent flight in which she herself figured more or less as a captive. An airy surrender, her flesh nothing now but a stream of desire. They stopped, finally, in Kaladar, and went into the hotel—the old hotel that is still there. Taking her hand, kneading his fingers between hers, slowing his pace to match her uneven steps, Neil led her into the bar. She recognized it as a bar, though she had never been in one before. (Bailey’s Falls Inn did not yet have a license, so drinking was done in people’s rooms, or in a rather ramshackle night club across the road.) This bar was just as she would have expected—a big, dark, airless room, with the chairs and tables rearranged in a careless way after a hasty cleanup, the smell of Lysol not erasing the smell of beer, whiskey, cigars, pipes, men. A man came in from another room and spoke to Neil. He said, “Hello there, Doc,” and went behind the bar. It occurred to Grace that it would be like this everywhere they went—people would know Neil. “You know it’s Sunday,” the man said in a stern, almost shouting voice, as if he wanted to be heard out in the parking lot. “I can’t sell you anything in here on a Sunday. And I can’t sell anything to her, ever. She shouldn’t even be in here. You understand that?” “Oh, yes, sir. Yes, indeed, sir,” Neil said. “I heartily agree, sir.” While both men were talking, the man behind the bar had taken a bottle of whiskey from a hidden shelf and poured some into a glass and shoved it across the counter to Neil. “You thirsty?” he asked Grace. He was already opening a Coke. He gave it to her without a glass. Neil put a bill on the counter, and the man shoved it away. “I told you,” he said. “Can’t sell.” “What about the Coke?” Neil said. “Can’t sell.” The man put the bottle away. Neil drank what was in the glass very quickly. “You’re a good man,” he said. “Spirit of the law.” “Take the Coke along with you. Sooner she’s out of here the happier I’ll be.” “You bet,” Neil said. “She’s a good girl. My sister-in-law. Future sister-in-law. So I understand.” “Is that the truth?” They didn’t go back to Highway 7. Instead, they took the road north, which was not paved but was wide enough and decently graded. The drink seemed to have affected Neil’s driving in the opposite way than it was supposed to. He had slowed down to the seemly, even cautious rate that this road required. “You don’t mind?” he said. Grace said, “Mind what?” “Being dragged into any old place.” “No.” “I need your company. How’s your foot?” “It’s fine.” “It must hurt some.” “Not really. It’s O.K.” He picked up the hand that was not holding the Coke bottle, pressed the palm of it to his mouth, gave it a lick, and let it drop. “Did you think I was abducting you for fell purposes?” “No,” Grace lied, thinking how like his mother that word was. Fell. “There was a time when you would have been right,” he said, just as if she had answered yes. “But not today. I don’t think so. You’re safe as a church today.” The changed tone of his voice, which had become intimate, frank, and quiet, and the memory of his lips pressed, his tongue flicked, across her skin, affected Grace to such an extent that she was hearing the words but not the sense of what he was telling her. She could feel a hundred flicks of his tongue, a dance of supplication, all over her skin. But she thought to say, “Churches aren’t always safe.” “True. True.” “And I’m not your sister-in-law.” “Future. Didn’t I say future?” “I’m not that, either.” “Oh. Well. I guess I’m not surprised. No. Not surprised.” Then his voice changed again, became businesslike. “I’m looking for a turnoff up here, to the right. There’s a road I ought to recognize. Do you know this country at all?” “Not around here, no.” “Don’t know Flower Station? Ompah? Poland? Snow Road?” She had not heard of them. “There’s somebody I want to see.” A turn was made, to the right, with some dubious mutterings on his part. There were no signs. This road was narrower and rougher, with a one-lane plank-floored bridge. The trees of the hardwood forest laced their branches overhead. The weather had been strangely warm this year, and the leaves were still green, except for the odd one here and there that flashed out like a banner. There was a feeling of sanctuary. For miles, Neil and Grace were quiet, and there was still no break in the trees, no end to the forest. But then Neil broke the peace. He said, “Can you drive?” And when Grace said no he said, “I think you should learn.” He meant right then. He stopped the car, got out, and came around to her side, gesturing to her to move behind the wheel. “No better place than this.” “What if something comes?” “Nothing will. And we can manage if it does. That’s why I picked a straight stretch.” He did not bother explaining anything about how cars ran—he simply showed her where to put her feet, and made her practice shifting the gears, then said, “Now go, and do what I tell you.” The first leap of the car terrified her. She ground the gears, and she thought he would put an end to the lesson immediately, but he just laughed. He said, “Whoa, easy. Easy. Keep going,” and she did. He did not comment on her steering, except to say, “Keep going, keep going, keep on the road, don’t let the engine die.” “When can I stop?” she said. “Not till I tell you how.” He made her keep driving until they came out of the tunnel of trees, and then he instructed her about the brake. As soon as she had stopped, she opened the door so that they could trade sides, but he said, “No. This is just a breather. Soon you’ll be getting to like it.” And when they started again she began to see that he might be right. Her momentary surge of confidence almost took them into a ditch. Still, he laughed when he had to grab the wheel, and the lesson continued. She drove for what seemed like miles, and even went—slowly—around several curves. Then he said that they had better switch back, because he could not get a feeling of direction unless he was driving. He asked how she felt now, and though she was shaking all over she said, “O.K.” He rubbed her arm from shoulder to elbow and said, “What a liar.” But did not touch her, beyond that, did not let any part of her feel his mouth again. He must have got his feeling of direction back when they came to a crossroads some miles on, for he turned left, and the trees thinned out and they climbed a rough road up to a village, or at least a roadside collection of buildings. A church and a store, neither of them open to serve their original purposes but probably lived in, to judge by the vehicles around them and the sorry-looking curtains in the windows. There were a couple of houses in the same state, and, behind one of them, a barn that had fallen in on itself, with old dark hay bulging out between its cracked beams like swollen innards. Neil exclaimed in celebration at the sight of this place, but did not stop there. “What a relief,” he said. “What—a—relief. Now I know. Thank you.” “Me?” “For letting me teach you to drive. It calmed me down.” “Calmed you down?” Grace said. “Really?” “True as I live.” Neil was smiling, but he did not look at her. He was busy looking from side to side, across the fields that lay along the road after it had passed through the village. He was talking as if to himself. “This is it. Got to be it. Now we know.” And so on, till he turned onto a lane that didn’t go straight but wound around through a field, avoiding rocks and patches of juniper. At the end of the lane was a house, in no better shape than the houses in the village. “Now, this place,” he said, “this place I am not going to take you into. I won’t be five minutes.” He was longer than that. She sat in the car, in the shade. The door to the house was open—just the screen door closed. The screen had mended patches in it, newer wire woven in with the old. Nobody came to look at her, not even a dog. And now that the car had stopped, the day filled up with an unnatural silence. Unnatural because on such a hot afternoon you would expect the buzzing and chirping of insects in the grass and in the juniper bushes. Even if you couldn’t see them, their noise would seem to rise out of everything growing on the earth, as far as the horizon. But it was too late in the year, maybe too late even to hear geese honking as they flew south. At any rate, she didn’t hear any. It seemed that they were up on top of the world here. The field fell away on all sides; only the tips of the trees were visible, because they grew on lower ground. Whom did Neil know, who lived in this house? A woman? It didn’t seem possible that the sort of woman he would want could live in a place like this, but then there was no end to the strangeness that Grace could encounter today. No end to it. Once, this had been a brick house, but someone had begun to take the brick walls down. Plain wooden walls had been bared underneath, and the bricks that had covered them were roughly piled in the yard, maybe waiting to be sold. The bricks left on the wall in front of her formed a diagonal line, a set of steps, and Grace, with nothing else to do, leaned back to count them. She did this both foolishly and seriously, the way you would pull petals off a flower, but not with any words so blatant as He loves me, he loves me not. Lucky. Not. Lucky. Not. That was all she dared. She found that it was hard to keep track of the bricks arranged in this zigzag fashion, especially since the line flattened out above the door. Then she knew. What else could it be? A bootlegger’s place. She thought of the bootlegger in the town where her aunt and uncle lived—a raddled, skinny old man, morose and suspicious. He sat on his front step with a shotgun on Halloween night. And he painted numbers on the sticks of firewood stacked by his door so he’d know if any were stolen. She thought of him—or this one—dozing in the heat, in his dirty but tidy room (she knew that it would be that way by the mended patches in the screen), getting up from his creaky cot or couch, covered with a stained quilt that some woman related to him, some woman now dead, had made long ago. Not that she had ever been inside the bootlegger’s house, but the partitions were thin, back home, between the threadbare ways of living that were respectable and those that were not. She knew how things were. How strange that she’d thought of becoming one of them—a Travers. Marrying Maury. A kind of treachery, it would be. But not a treachery to be riding with Neil, because he wasn’t fortunate—he knew some of the things that she did. And then in the doorway it seemed that she could see her uncle, stooped and baffled, looking out at her, as if she had been away for years and years. As if she had promised to come home and then had forgotten about it, and in all this time he should have died but he hadn’t. She struggled to speak to him, but he was lost. She was waking up, moving. She was in the car with Neil, on the road again. She had been asleep with her mouth open and she was thirsty. He turned to her for a moment, and she noticed, even with the wind blowing around them, a fresh smell of whiskey. “You awake? You were fast asleep when I came out of there,” he said. “Sorry—I had to be sociable for a while. How’s your bladder?” That was a problem she had been thinking about, in fact, while she was waiting. She had seen a toilet behind the house, but had felt shy about getting out and walking to it. He said, “This looks like a possible place,” and stopped the car. She got out and walked in among some blooming goldenrod and Queen Anne’s lace and wild asters, to squat down. He stood in the flowers on the other side, with his back to her. When she got into the car, she saw the bottle, on the floor beside her feet. More than a third of its contents seemed already to be gone. He saw her looking. “Oh, don’t worry,” he said. “I just poured some in here.” He held up a flask. “Easier when I’m driving.” On the floor there was also another Coca-Cola. He told her to look in the glove compartment for a bottle opener. “It’s cold!” she said in surprise. “Icebox. They cut ice off the lakes in the winter and store it in sawdust. He keeps it under the house.” “I thought I saw my uncle in the doorway of that house,” she said. “But I was dreaming.” “You could tell me about your uncle. Tell me about where you live. Your job. Anything. I just like to hear you talk.” There was a new strength in his voice, and a change in his face, but it wasn’t the manic glow of drunkenness. It was as if he’d been sick—not terribly sick, just down, under the weather—and was now wanting to assure her that he was better. He capped the flask and laid it down and reached for her hand. He held it lightly, a comrade’s clasp. “He’s quite old,” Grace said. “He’s really my great-uncle. He’s a caner—that means he canes chairs. I can’t explain that to you, but I could show you how, if we had a chair to cane—” “I don’t see one.” She laughed, and said, “It’s boring, really.” “Tell me about what interests you, then. What interests you?” She said, “You do.” “Oh. What about me interests you?” His hand slid away. “What you’re doing now,” Grace said determinedly. “Why.” “You mean drinking? Why I’m drinking?” The cap came off the flask again. “Why don’t you ask me?” “Because I know what you’d say.” “What’s that? What would I say?” “You’d say, ‘What else is there to do?’ Or something like that.” “That’s true,” he said. “That’s about what I’d say. Well, then you’d try to tell me why I was wrong.” “No,” Grace said. “No. I wouldn’t.” When she’d said that, she felt cold. She had thought that she was serious, but now she saw that she’d been trying to impress him, to show that she was as worldly as he was, and in the middle of that she had come on a rock-bottom truth, a lack of hope that was genuine, reasonable, everlasting. There was no comfort in what she saw, now that she could see it. Neil said, “You wouldn’t? No. You wouldn’t. That’s a relief. You are a relief, Grace.” In a while he said, “You know, I’m sleepy. Soon as we find a good spot I’m going to pull over and go to sleep. Just for a little while. Would you mind that?” “No. I think you should.” “You’ll watch over me?” “Yes.” “Good.” The spot he found was in a little town called Fortune. There was a park on the outskirts, beside a river, and a gravelled space for cars. He settled the seat back, and at once fell asleep. Evening had come on as it did now, around suppertime, proving that this wasn’t a summer day after all. A short while ago, people had been having a Thanksgiving picnic here—there was still some smoke rising from the outdoor fireplace, and the smell of hamburgers in the air. The smell did not make Grace hungry, exactly—it made her remember being hungry, in other circumstances. Some dust had settled on her, with all the stopping and starting of her driving lesson. She got out and washed her hands and her face as well as she could, at an outdoor tap. Then, favoring her cut foot, she walked slowly to the edge of the river, saw how shallow it was, with reeds breaking the surface. A sign there warned that profanity, obscenity, or vulgar language was forbidden in this place and would be punished. She tried the swings, which faced west. Pumping herself high, she looked into the clear sky—faint green, fading gold, a fierce pink rim at the horizon. Already the air was getting cold. She had thought that it was touch. Mouths, tongues, skin, bodies, banging bone on bone. Inflammation. Passion. But that wasn’t what she’d been working toward at all. She had seen deeper, deeper into him than she could ever have managed if they’d gone that way. What she saw was final. As if she were at the edge of a flat dark body of water that stretched on and on. Cold, level water. Looking out at such dark, cold, level water, and knowing that it was all there was. It wasn’t the drinking that was responsible. Drinking, needing to drink—that was just some sort of distraction, like everything else, from the thing that was waiting, no matter what, all the time. She went back to the car and tried to rouse him. He stirred but wouldn’t waken. So she walked around again to keep warm, and to practice the easiest way with her foot—she understood now that she would be working again, serving breakfast in the morning. She tried once more, talking to him urgently. He answered with various promises and mutters, and once more he fell asleep. By the time it was really dark she had given up. Now, with the cold of night settled in, some other facts became clear to her: that they could not remain here, that they were still in the world, after all, that she had to get back to Bailey’s Falls. With some difficulty, she got him over into the passenger seat. If that did not wake him, it was clear that nothing could. It took her a while to figure out how the headlights went on, and then she began to move the car, jerkily, slowly, back onto the road. She had no idea of directions, and there was not a soul on the street to ask. She just kept driving, to the other side of the town, and there, most blessedly, was a sign pointing the way to Bailey’s Falls, among other places. Only nine miles. She drove along the two-lane highway, never at more than thirty miles an hour. There was little traffic. Once or twice a car passed her, honking, and the few she met honked also. In one case, it was probably because she was going so slowly, and, in the other, because she did not know how to dim the lights. Never mind. She couldn’t stop to get her courage up again. She had to just keep going, as he had said. Keep going. At first she did not recognize Bailey’s Falls, coming upon it in this unfamiliar way. When she did, she became more frightened than she had been in all the nine miles. It was one thing to drive in unknown territory, another to turn in at the inn gates. He was awake when she stopped in the parking lot. He didn’t show any surprise at where they were, or at what she had done. In fact, he told her, the honking had woken him, miles back, but he had pretended to be still asleep, because the important thing was not to startle her. He hadn’t been worried, though. He’d known that she would make it. She asked if he was awake enough to drive now. “Wide awake. Bright as a dollar.” He told her to slip her foot out of its sandal, and he pressed it here and there, before saying, “Nice. No heat. No swelling. Your arm hurt from the shot? Maybe it won’t.” He walked her to the door, and thanked her for her company. She was still amazed to be safely back. She hardly realized that it was time to say goodbye. As a matter of fact, she does not know, to this day, if those words were spoken or if he only caught her, wound his arms around her, held her so tightly, with such continuous, changing pressure that it seemed as if more than two arms were needed, as if she were surrounded by him, his body strong and light, demanding and renouncing all at once, telling her that she was wrong to give up on him, everything was possible, but then again that she was not wrong, he meant to stamp himself on her and go. Early in the morning, the manager knocked on the dormitory door, calling for Grace. “Somebody on the phone,” he said. “Don’t bother getting up—they just wanted to know if you were here. I said I’d go and check. O.K. now.” It would be Maury, she thought. One of them, anyway. But probably Maury. Now she’d have to deal with Maury. When she went down to serve breakfast—wearing running shoes, one loosely laced—she heard about the accident. A car had gone into a bridge abutment halfway down the road to Sabot Lake. It had been rammed right in—it was totally smashed and burned up. There were no other cars involved, and apparently no passengers. The driver would have to be identified by dental records. Or probably had been, by this time. “One hell of a way,” the manager said. “Better to go and cut your throat.” “It could’ve been an accident,” said the cook, who had an optimistic nature. “Could’ve just fell asleep.” “Yeah. Sure.” Her arm hurt now, as if it had taken a wicked blow. She couldn’t balance her tray, and had to carry it in front of her, using both hands instead. She did not have to deal with Maury face to face. He wrote her a letter. Just say he made you do it. Just say you didn’t want to go. She wrote back five words. I did want to go. She was going to add, I’m sorry, but stopped herself. Mr. Travers came to the inn to see her a few days later. He was polite and businesslike, firm, cool, not unkind. She saw him now in circumstances that let him come into his own. A man who could take charge, who could tidy things up. He said that it was very sad, they were all very sad, but alcoholism was a terrible thing. When Mrs. Travers was a little better, he was going to take her on a trip, a vacation, somewhere warm. Then he said that he had to be going. He had many things to do. As he shook her hand to say goodbye, he put an envelope into it. “We both hope you’ll make good use of this,” he said. The check was for a thousand dollars. Immediately she thought of sending it back or tearing it up, and sometimes even now she thinks that that would have been a grand thing to do. But in the end, of course, she was not able to do it. In those days, it was enough money to insure her a start in life. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
In the Palace of the End	In the Palace of the End The New Yorker, March 15, 2004 P. 128 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. ABSTRACT: Short story about an unnamed double who impersonates the son of the country’s dictator. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Long Ago Yesterday	One evening just after my fiftieth birthday, I pushed against the door of a pub not far from my childhood home. My father, on the way back from his office in London, was inside, standing at the bar. He didn’t recognize me, but I was delighted, almost ecstatic, to see the old man again, particularly as he’d been dead for ten years, and my mother for five. “Good evening,” I said, standing next to him. “Nice to see you.” “Good evening,” he replied. “This place never changes,” I said. “We like it this way,” he said. I ordered a drink; I needed one. I noticed the date on a discarded newspaper and calculated that Dad was just a little older than me, nearly fifty-one. We were as close to equals—or contemporaries—as we’d ever be. He was talking to a man sitting on a stool next to him, and the barmaid was laughing extravagantly with them both. I knew Dad better than anyone, or thought I did, and I was tempted to embrace him or at least kiss his hands, as I used to. I refrained, but watched him looking comfortable at the bar beside the man I now realized was the father of a school friend of mine. Neither of them seemed to mind when I joined in. Like a lot of people, I have some of my best friendships with the dead. I dream frequently about both of my parents and the house where I grew up, undistinguished though it was. Of course, I never imagined that Dad and I might meet up like this, for a conversation. Lately I had been feeling unusually foreign to myself. My fiftieth hit me like a tragedy, with a sense of wasted purpose and many wrong moves made. I could hardly complain: I was a theatre and film producer, with houses in London, New York, and Brazil. But complain I did. I had become keenly aware of various mental problems that enervated but did not ruin me. I ran into Dad on a Monday. Over the weekend I’d been staying with some friends in the country who had a fine house and pretty acquaintances, good paintings to look at, and an excellent cook. The Iraq war, which had just started, had been on TV continuously. About twenty of us, old and young men, lay on deep sofas drinking champagne and giggling until the prospect of thousands of bombs smashing into donkey carts, human flesh, and primitive shacks had depressed everyone in the house. We were aware that disgust was general in the country and that Tony Blair, once our hope after years in opposition, had become the most tarnished and loathed leader since Anthony Eden. We were living in a time of lies, deceit, and alienation. This was heavy, and our lives seemed uncomfortably trivial in comparison. Just after lunch, I had left my friend’s house, and the taxi got me as far as the railway station when I realized I’d left behind a bent paper clip I’d been fiddling with. It was in my friend’s library, where I’d been reading about mesmerism in the work of Maupassant, as well as Dickens’s experiments with hypnotism, which had got him into a lot of trouble with the wife of a friend. The taxi took me back, and I hurried into the room to retrieve the paper clip, but the cleaner had just finished. Did I want to examine the contents of the vacuum? my hosts asked. They were making faces at one another. Yet I had begun to see myself as heroic in terms of what I’d achieved in spite of my obsessions. This was a line my therapist used. Luckily, I would be seeing the good doctor the next day. Despite my devastation over the paper clip, I returned to the station and got on the train. I had come down by car, so it was only now I realized that the route of the train meant we would stop at the suburban railway station nearest to my childhood home. As we drew into the platform, I found myself straining to see things I recognized, even familiar faces, though I had left the area some thirty years before. But it was raining hard and almost impossible to make anything out. Then, just as the train was about to pull away, I grabbed my bag and got off, walking out into the street with no idea what I would do. Near the station there had been a small record shop, a bookshop, and a place to buy jeans, along with several pubs that I’d been taken to as a young man by a local bed-sit aesthete, the first person I came out to. Of course, he knew straight away. His hero was Jean Cocteau. We’d discuss French literature and Wilde and Pop, before taking our speed pills and applying our makeup in the station toilet and getting the train into the city. Along with another white friend who dressed as Jimi Hendrix, we saw all the plays and shows. Eventually I got a job in a West End box office. This led to work as a stagehand, usher, dresser—even a director—before I found my “vocation” as a producer. Now I asked my father his name and what he did. I knew how to work Dad, of course. Soon he was more interested in me than in the other man. Yet my fear didn’t diminish: didn’t we look similar? I wasn’t sure. My clothes, as well as my sparkly new teeth, were more expensive than his, and I was heavier and taller, about a third bigger all over—I have always worked out. But my hair was going gray; I don’t dye it. Dad’s hair was still mostly black. An accountant all his life, my father had worked in the same office for fifteen years. He was telling me that he had two sons: Dennis, who was in the Air Force, and me—Billy. A few months ago I’d gone away to university, where, apparently, I was doing well. My all-female production of “Waiting for Godot”—“a bloody depressing play,” according to Dad—had been admired. I wanted to say, “But I didn’t direct it, Dad, I only produced it.” I had introduced myself to Dad as Peter, the name I sometimes adopted, along with quite a developed alternative character, during anonymous sexual encounters. Not that I needed a persona: Father would ask me where I was from and what I did, but whenever I began to answer he’d interrupt with a stream of advice and opinions. My father said he wanted to sit down because his sciatica was playing up, and I joined him at a table. Eying the barmaid, Dad said, “She’s lovely, isn’t she?” “Lovely hair,” I said. “Unfortunately, none of her clothes fit.” “Who’s interested in her clothes?” This was an aspect of my father I’d never seen; perhaps it was a departure for him. I’d never known him to go to the pub after work; he came straight home. And once Dennis had left I was able to secure Father’s evenings for myself. Every day I’d wait for him at the bus stop, ready to take his briefcase. In the house I’d make him a cup of tea while he changed. Now the barmaid came over to remove our glasses and empty the ashtrays. As she leaned across the table, Dad put his hand behind her knee and slid it all the way up her skirt to her arse, which he caressed, squeezed, and held until she reeled away and stared at him in disbelief, shouting that she hated the pub and the men in it, and would he get out before she called the landlord and he flung him out personally? The landlord did indeed rush over. He snatched away Dad’s glass, raising his fist as Dad hurried to the door, forgetting his briefcase. I’d never known Dad to go to work without his briefcase, and I’d never known him to leave it anywhere. As my brother and I used to say, his attaché case was always attached to him. Outside, where Dad was brushing himself down, I handed it back to him. “Thank you,” he said. “Shouldn’t have done that. But once, just once, I had to. Suppose it’s the last time I touch anyone!” He asked, “Which way are you going?” “I’ll walk with you a bit,” I said. “My bag isn’t heavy. I’m passing through. I need to get a train into London, but there’s no hurry.” He said, “Why don’t you come and have a drink at my house?” My parents lived according to a strict regime, mathematical in its exactitude. Why, now, was he inviting a stranger to his house? I had always been his only friend; our involvement had kept us both busy. “Are you sure?” “Yes,” he said. “Come.” Noise and night and rain streaming everywhere: you couldn’t see farther than your hand. But we both knew the way, Dad moving slowly, his mouth hanging open to catch more air. He seemed happy enough, perhaps with what he’d done in the pub, or maybe my company cheered him up. Yet when we turned the corner into the neat familiar road, a road that had, to my surprise, remained exactly where it was all the time I hadn’t been there, I felt wrapped in coldness. In my recent dreams—fading as they were like frescoes in the light—the suburban street had been darkly dismal under the yellow shadows of the streetlights, and filled with white flowers and a suffocating, deathly odor, like being buried in roses. But how could I falter now? Once inside the house, Dad threw open the door to the living room. I blinked; there she was, Mother, knitting in her huge chair with her feet up, an open box of chocolates on the small table beside her, her fingers rustling for treasure in the crinkly paper. Dad left me while he changed into his pajamas and dressing gown. The fact that he had a visitor, a stranger, didn’t deter him from his routine, outside of which there were no maps. I stood in my usual position, justbehind Mother’s chair. Here, where I wouldn’t impede her enjoyment with noise, complaints, or the sight of my face, I explained that Dad and I had met in the pub and he’d invited me back for a drink. Mother said, “I don’t think we’ve got any drink, unless there’s something left over from last Christmas. Drink doesn’t go bad, does it?” “It doesn’t go bad.” “Now shut up,” she said. “I’m watching this. D’you watch the soaps?” “Not much.” Maybe the ominous whiteness of my dreams had been stimulated by the whiteness of the things Mother had been knitting and crocheting—headrests, gloves, cushion covers; there wasn’t a piece of furniture in the house without a knitted thing on it. Even as a grown man, I couldn’t buy a pair of gloves without thinking I should be wearing Mother’s. In the kitchen, I made a cup of tea for myself and Dad. Mum had left my father’s dinner in the oven: sausages, mash, and peas, all dry as lime by now, and presented on a large cracked plate, with space between each item. Mum had asked me if I wanted anything, but how would I have been able to eat anything here? As I waited for the kettle to boil, I washed up the dishes at the sink overlooking the garden. Then I carried Father’s tea and dinner into his study, formerly the family dining room. With one hand I made a gap for the plate at the table, which was piled high with library books. After I’d finished my homework, Dad always liked me to go through the radio schedules, marking programs I might record for him. If I was lucky, he would read to me, or talk about the lives of the artists he was absorbed with—these were his companions. Their lives were exemplary, but only a fool would try to emulate them. Meanwhile I would slip my hand inside his pajama top and tickle his back, or I’d scratch his head or rub his arms until his eyes rolled in appreciation. Now in his bedwear, sitting down to eat, Dad told me he was embarked on a “five-year reading plan.” He was working on “War and Peace.” Next it would be “Remembrance of Things Past,” then “Middlemarch,” all of Dickens, Homer, Chaucer, and so on. He kept a separate notebook for each author he read. “This methodical way,” he pointed out, “you get to know everything in literature. You will never run out of interest, of course, because then there is music, painting, in fact the whole of human history. . . .” His talk reminded me of the time I won the school essay prize for a tract on time-wasting. The piece was not about how to fritter away one’s time profitlessly, which might have made it a useful and lively work, but about how much can be achieved by filling every moment with activity! Dad was my ideal. He would read even in the bath, and as he reclined there my job was to wash his feet, back, and hair with soap and a flannel. When he was done, I’d be waiting with a warm, open towel. I interrupted him, “You certainly wanted to know that woman this evening.” “What? How quiet it is! Shall we hear some music?” He was right. Neither the city nor the country was quiet like the suburbs, the silence of people holding their breath. Dad was holding up a record he had borrowed from the library. “You will know this, but not well enough, I guarantee you.” Beethoven’s Fifth was an odd choice of background music, but how could I sneer? Without his enthusiasm, my life would never have been filled with music. Mother had been a church pianist, and she’d taken us to the ballet, usually “The Nutcracker,” or the Bolshoi when they visited London. Mum and Dad sometimes went ballroom dancing; I loved it when they dressed up. Out of such minute inspirations I have found meaning sufficient for a life. Dad said, “Do you think I’ll be able to go in that pub again?” “If you apologize.” “Better leave it a few weeks. I don’t know what overcame me. That woman’s not a Jewess, is she?” “I don’t know.” “Usually she’s happy to hear about my aches and pains, and who else is, at our age?” “Where d’you ache?” “It’s the walk to and from the station—sometimes I just can’t make it. I have to stop and lean against something.” I said, “I’ve been learning massage.” “Ah.” He put his feet in my lap. I squeezed his feet, ankles, and calves; he wasn’t looking at me now. He said, “Your hands are strong. You’re not a plumber, are you?” “I’ve told you what I do. I have the theatre, and now I’m helping to set up a teaching foundation, a studio for the young.” He whispered, “Are you homosexual?” “I am, yes. Never seen a cock I didn’t like. You?” “Queer? It would have shown up by now, wouldn’t it? But I’ve never done much about my female interests.” “You’ve never been unfaithful?” “I’ve always liked women.” I asked, “Do they like you?” “The local secretaries are friendly. Not that you can do anything. I can’t afford a ‘professional.’ ” “How often do you go to the pub?” “I’ve started popping in after work. My Billy has gone.” “For good?” “After university he’ll come running back to me, I can assure you of that. Around this time of night, I’d always be talking to him. There’s a lot you can put in a kid, without his knowing it. My wife doesn’t have a word to say to me. She doesn’t like to do anything for me, either.” “Sexually?” “She might look large to you, but in the flesh she is even larger, and she crushes me like a gnat in bed. I can honestly say we haven’t had it off for eighteen years.” “Since Billy was born?” He said, letting me caress him, “She never had much enthusiasm for it. Now she is indifferent . . . frozen . . . almost dead.” I said, “People are more scared of their own passion than of anything else. But it’s a grim deprivation she’s made you endure.” He nodded. “You dirty homos have a good time, I bet, looking at one another in toilets and that—” “People like to think so. But I’ve lived alone for five years.” He said, “I am hoping she will die before me, then I might have a chance. . . . We ordinary types carry on in these hateful situations for the single reason of the children, and you’ll never have that.” “You’re right.” He indicated photographs of me and my brother. “Without those babies, there is nothing for me. It is ridiculous to try to live for yourself alone.” “Don’t I know it? Unless one can find others to live for.” “I hope you do!” he said. “But it can never be the same as your own.” If the mortification of fidelity imperils love, there’s always the consolation of children. I had been Dad’s girl, his servant, his worshipper; my faith had kept him alive. It was a cult of personality he had set up, with my brother and me as his mirrors. Now Mother opened the door—not so wide that she could see us, or us her—and announced that she was going to bed. “Good night,” I called. Dad was right about kids. But what could I do about it? I had bought an old factory at my own expense and had converted it into a theatre studio, a place where young people could work with established artists. I spent so much time in this building that I had moved my office there. It was where I would head when I left here, to sit in the café, seeing who would turn up and what they wanted from me, if anything. I was gradually divesting myself, as I aged, of all I’d accumulated. One of Father’s favorite works was Tolstoy’s “How Much Land Does a Man Need?” I said, “With or without children, you are still a man. There are things you want that children cannot provide.” He said, “We all, in this street, are devoted to hobbies.” “The women, too?” “They sew, or whatever. There’s never an idle moment. My son has written a beautiful essay on the use of time.” He sipped his tea; the Beethoven, which was on repeat, boomed away. He seemed content to let me work on his legs. Since he didn’t want me to stop, I asked him to lie on the floor. With characteristic eagerness, he removed his dressing gown and then his pajama top; I massaged every part of him, murmuring “Dad, Dad” under my breath. When at last he stood up, I was ready with his warm dressing gown, which I had placed on the radiator. It was late, but not too late to leave. It was never too late to leave the suburbs, but Dad invited me to stay. I agreed, though it hadn’t occurred to me that he would suggest I sleep in my old room, in my bed. He accompanied me upstairs and in I went, stepping over record sleeves, magazines, clothes, books. My piano I was most glad to see. I can still play a little, but my passion was writing the songs that were scrawled in notebooks on top of the piano. Not that I would be able to look at them. When I began to work in the theatre, I didn’t show my songs to anyone, and eventually I came to believe they were a waste of time. Standing there shivering, I had to tell myself the truth: my secret wasn’t that I hadn’t propagated but that I’d wanted to be an artist, not just a producer. If I chose, I could blame my parents for this: they had seen themselves as spectators, in the background of life. But I was the one who’d lacked the guts—to fail, to succeed, to engage with the whole undignified, insane attempt at originality. I had only ever been a handmaiden, first to Dad and then to others—the artists I’d supported—and how could I have imagined that that would be sufficient? My bed was narrow. Through the thin ceiling, I could hear my father snoring; I knew whenever he turned over in bed. It was true that I had never heard them making love. Somehow, between them, they had transformed the notion of physical love into a ridiculous idea. Why would people want to do something so awkward with their limbs? I couldn’t hear Mother. She didn’t snore, but she could sigh for England. I got up and went to the top of the stairs. By the kitchen light I could see her in her dressing gown, stockings around her ankles, trudging along the hall and into each room, wringing her hands as she went, muttering back to the ghosts clamoring within her skull. She stood still to scratch and tear at her exploded arms. During the day, she kept them covered because of her “eczema.” Now I watched while flakes of skin fell onto the carpet, as though she were converting herself into dust. She dispersed the shreds of her body with her delicately pointed dancer’s foot. As a child—even as a young man—I would never have approached Mother in this state. She had always made it clear that the uproar and demands of two boys were too much for her. Naturally, she couldn’t wish for us to die, so she died herself, inside. One time, my therapist asked whether Dad and I were able to be silent together. More relevant, I should have said, was whether Mother and I could be together without my chattering on about whatever occurred to me, in order to distract her from herself. Now I made up my mind and walked down the stairs, watching her all the while. She was like difficult music, and you wouldn’t want to get too close. But, as with such music, I wouldn’t advise trying to make it out—you have to sit with it, wait for it to address you. I was standing beside her, and with her head down she looked at me sideways. “I’ll make you some tea,” I said, and she even nodded. Before, during one of her nighttime wanderings, she had found me masturbating in front of some late-night TV program. It must have been some boy group, or Bowie. “I know what you are,” she said. She was not disapproving. She was just a lost ally. I made a cup of lemon tea and gave it to her. As she stood sipping it, I took up a position beside her, my head bent also, attempting to see—as she appeared to vibrate with inner electricity—what she saw and felt. It was clear that there was no chance of my ever being able to cure her. I could only become less afraid of her madness. In his bed, Father was still snoring. He wouldn’t have liked me to be with her. He had taken her sons for himself, charmed them away, and he wasn’t a sharer. She was almost through with the tea and getting impatient. Wandering, muttering, scratching: she had important work to do and time was passing. I couldn’t detain her anymore. I slept in her chair in the front room. When I got up, my parents were having breakfast. My father was back in his suit, and my mother was in the uniform she wore to work in the supermarket. I dressed rapidly in order to join Dad as he walked to the station. It had stopped raining. I asked him about his day, but couldn’t stop thinking about mine. I was living, as my therapist enjoyed reminding me, under the aegis of the clock. I wanted to go to the studio and talk; I wanted to eat well and make love well, go to a show and then dance, and make love again. I could not be the same as them. At the station in London, Father and I parted. I said I’d always look out for him when I was in the area, but couldn’t be sure when I’d be coming his way again. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Chicxulub	My daughter is walking along the roadside late at night—too late, really, for a seventeen-year-old to be out alone, even in a town as safe as this—and it is raining, the first rain of the season, the streets slick with a fine immiscible glaze of water and petrochemicals, so that even a driver in full possession of her faculties, a driver who hadn’t consumed two apple Martinis and three glasses of Hitching Post pinot noir before she got behind the wheel of her car, would have trouble keeping the thing out of the gutters and the shrubbery, off the sidewalk and the highway median, for Christ’s sake. . . . But that’s not really what I want to talk about, or not yet, anyway. Have you heard of Tunguska? In Russia? This was the site of the last known large-body impact on the Earth’s surface, nearly a hundred years ago. Or that’s not strictly accurate—the meteor, which was an estimated sixty yards across, never actually touched down. The force of its entry—the compression and superheating of the air beneath it—caused it to explode some twenty-five thousand feet above the ground, but then the term “explode” hardly does justice to the event. There was a detonation—a flash, a thunderclap—with the combustive power of eight hundred Hiroshima bombs. Thirty miles away, reindeer in their loping herds were struck dead by the blast wave, and the clothes of a hunter another thirty miles beyond that burst into flame even as he was poleaxed to the ground. Seven hundred square miles of Siberian forest were levelled in an instant. If the meteor had struck just five hours later, it would have exploded over St. Petersburg and annihilated every living thing in that glorious, baroque city. And this was only a rock. And it was only sixty yards across. My point? You’d better get down on your knees and pray to your gods, because each year this big spinning globe we ride intersects the orbits of some twenty million asteroids, at least a thousand of which are more than half a mile in diameter. But my daughter. She’s out there in the dark and the rain, walking home. Maureen and I bought her a car, a Honda Civic, the safest thing on four wheels, but the car was used—pre-owned, in dealerspeak—and as it happens it’s in the shop with transmission problems and, because she just had to see her friends and gossip and giggle and balance slick multicolored clumps of raw fish and pickled ginger on conjoined chopsticks at the mall, Kimberly picked her up and Kimberly will bring her home. Maddy has a cell phone and theoretically she could have called us, but she didn’t—or that’s how it appears. And so she’s walking. In the rain. And Alice K. Petermann, of 16 Briar Lane, white, divorced, a Realtor with Hyperion, who has picked at a salad and left her glasses on the bar, loses control of her vehicle. It is just past midnight. I am in bed with a book, naked, and hardly able to focus on the clustered words and rigid descending paragraphs, because Maureen is in the bathroom slipping into the sheer black negligee I bought her at Victoria’s Secret for her birthday, and her every sound—the creak of the medicine cabinet on its hinges, the tap running, the susurrus of the brush at her teeth—electrifies me. I’ve lit a candle and am waiting for Maureen to step into the room so that I can flick off the light. We had cocktails earlier, and a bottle of wine with dinner, and we sat close on the couch and shared a joint in front of the fire, because our daughter was out and we could do that with no one the wiser. I listen to the little sounds from the bathroom, seductive sounds, maddening. I am ready. More than ready. “Hey,” I call, pitching my voice low, “are you coming or not? You don’t expect me to wait all night, do you?” Her face appears in the doorway, the pale lobes of her breasts and the dark nipples visible through the clinging black silk. “Oh, are you waiting for me?” she says, making a game of it. She hovers at the door, and I can see the smile creep across her lips, the pleasure of the moment, drawing it out. “Because I thought I might go down and work in the garden for a while—it won’t take long, a couple hours, maybe. You know, spread a little manure, bank up some of the mulch on the roses. You’ll wait for me, won’t you?” Then the phone rings. We stare blankly at each other through the first two rings and then Maureen says, “I’d better get it,” and I say, “No, no, forget it—it’s nothing. It’s nobody.” But she’s already moving. “Forget it!” I shout, and her voice drifts back to me—“What if it’s Maddy?”—then I watch her put her lips to the receiver and whisper, “Hello?” The night of the Tunguska explosion the skies were unnaturally bright across Europe—as far away as London people strolled in the parks past midnight and read novels out of doors while the sheep kept right on grazing and the birds stirred uneasily in the trees. There were no stars visible, no moon—just a pale, quivering light, as if all the color had been bleached out of the sky. But, of course, that midnight glow and the fate of those unhappy Siberian reindeer were nothing at all compared to what would have happened if a larger object had invaded the Earth’s atmosphere. On average, objects greater than a hundred yards in diameter strike the planet once every five thousand years, and asteroids half a mile across thunder down at intervals of three hundred thousand years. Three hundred thousand years is a long time in anybody’s book. But if—when—such a collision occurs, the explosion will be in the million-megaton range and will cloak the atmosphere in dust, thrusting the entire planet into a deep freeze and effectively stifling all plant growth for a period of a year or more. There will be no crops. No forage. No sun. There has been an accident, that is what the voice on the other end of the line is telling my wife, and the victim is Madeline Biehn, of 1337 Laurel Drive, according to the I.D. the paramedics found in her purse. (The purse, with a silver clasp that has been driven half an inch into the flesh under her arm by the force of the impact, is a little thing, no bigger than a hardcover book, with a ribbon-thin strap, the same purse all the girls carry, as if it were part of a uniform.) Is this her parent or guardian speaking? I hear my wife say, “This is her mother.” And then, the bottom dropping out of her voice, “Is she—?” Is she? They don’t answer such questions, don’t volunteer information, not over the phone. The next ten seconds are thunderous, cataclysmic, my wife standing there numbly with the phone in her hand as if it were some unidentifiable object she’d found in the street while I fumble out of bed to search for my pants—and my shoes, where are my shoes? The car keys? My wallet? This is the true panic, the loss of faith and control, the punch to the heart, and the struggle for breath. I say the only thing I can think to say, just to hear my own voice, just to get things straight: “She was in an accident. Is that what they said?” “She was hit by a car. She’s—they don’t know. In surgery.” “What hospital? Did they say what hospital?” My wife is in motion now, too, the negligee ridiculous, unequal to the task, and she jerks it over her head and flings it to the floor even as she snatches up a blouse, shorts, flip-flops—anything, anything to cover her nakedness and get her out the door. The dog is whining in the kitchen. There is the sound of rain on the roof, intensifying, hammering at the gutters. I don’t bother with shoes—there are no shoes, shoes do not exist—and my shirt hangs limply from my shoulders, misbuttoned, sagging, tails hanging loose, and we’re in the car now and the driver’s-side wiper is beating out of synch and the night closing on us like a fist. And then there’s Chicxulub. Sixty-five million years ago, an asteroid (or perhaps a comet—no one is quite certain) collided with the Earth on what is now the Yucatán Peninsula. Judging from the impact crater, which is a hundred and twenty miles wide, the object—this big flaming ball—was some six miles across. When it came down, day became night and that night extended so far into the future that at least seventy-five per cent of all known species were extinguished, including the dinosaurs in nearly all their forms and array and some ninety per cent of the oceans’ plankton, which in turn devastated the pelagic food chain. How fast was it travelling? The nearest estimates put it at fifty-four thousand miles an hour, more than sixty times the speed of a bullet. Astrophysicists call such objects “civilization enders,” and calculate the chances that a disaster of this magnitude will occur during any individual’s lifetime at roughly one in ten thousand, the same odds as dying in an auto accident in the next six months—or, more tellingly, living to be a hundred in the company of your spouse. All I see is windows, an endless grid of lit windows climbing one above the other into the night, as the car shoots into the Emergency Vehicles Only lane and slides in hard against the curb. Both doors fling open simultaneously. Maureen is already out on the sidewalk, already slamming the door behind her and breaking into a trot, and I’m right on her heels, the keys still in the ignition and the lights stabbing at the pale underbelly of a diagonally parked ambulance—and they can have the car, anybody can have it and keep it forever, if they’ll just tell me that my daughter is all right. “Just tell me,” I mutter, out of breath, “just tell me and it’s yours,” and this is a prayer, the first in a long discontinuous string, addressed to whoever or whatever may be listening. Overhead, the sky is having a seizure, black above, quicksilver below, the rain coming down in windblown arcs, and I wouldn’t even notice but for the fact that we are suddenly—instantly—wet, our hair knotted and clinging and our clothes stuck like flypaper to the slick tegument of our skin. In we come, side by side, through the doors that jolt back from us in alarm, and all I can think is that the hospital is a death factory and that we have come to it like the walking dead, haggard, sallow, shoeless. “My daughter,” I say to the nurse at the admittance desk, “she’s—they called. You called. She’s been in an accident.” Maureen is at my side, tugging at the fingers of one hand as if she were trying to remove an invisible glove. “A car. A car accident.” “Name?” the nurse asks. About this nurse: she’s young, Filipina, with opaque eyes and the bone structure of a cadaver; every day she sees death and it blinds her. She doesn’t see us. She sees a computer screen; she sees the TV monitor mounted in the corner and the shadows that pass there; she sees the walls, the floor, the naked light of the fluorescent tube. But not us. Not us. For one resounding moment that thumps in my ears and then thumps again, I can’t remember my daughter’s name—I can picture her leaning into the mound of textbooks spread out on the dining-room table, the glow of the overhead light making a nimbus of her hair as she glances up at me with a glum look and half a rueful smile, as if to say, It’s all in a day’s work for a teen-ager, Dad, and you’re lucky you’re not in high school anymore, but her name is gone. “Maddy,” my wife says. “Madeline Biehn.” I watch, mesmerized, as the nurse’s fleshless fingers maneuver the mouse, her eyes locked on the screen before her. A click. Another click. The eyes lift to take us in, even as they dodge away again. “She’s still in surgery,” she says. “Where is it?” I demand. “What room? Where do we go?” Maureen’s voice cuts in then, elemental, chilling, and it’s not a question she’s posing, not a statement or demand, but a plea: “What’s wrong with her?” Another click, but this one is just for show, and the eyes never move from the screen. “There was an accident,” the nurse says. “She was brought in by the paramedics. That’s all I can tell you.” It is then that I become aware that we are not alone, that there are others milling around the room—other zombies like us, hurriedly dressed and streaming water till the beige carpet is black with it—and why, I wonder, do I despise this nurse more than any human being I’ve ever encountered, this young woman not much older than my daughter, with her hair pulled back in a bun and a white cap like a party favor perched atop it, who is just doing her job? Why do I want to reach across the counter that separates us and awaken her to a swift, sure knowledge of hate and fear and pain? Why? “Ted,” Maureen says, and I feel her grip at my elbow, and then we’re moving again—hurrying, sweeping, practically running—out of this place, down a corridor under the glare of the lights that are a kind of death in themselves, and into a worse place, a far worse place. The thing that disturbs me about Chicxulub, aside from the fact that it erased the dinosaurs and wrought catastrophic and irreversible change, is the deeper implication that we, and all our works and worries and attachments, are so utterly inconsequential. Death cancels our individuality, we know that, yes, but ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, and the kind goes on, human life and culture succeed us. That, in the absence of God, is what allows us to accept the death of the individual. But when you throw Chicxulub into the mix—or the next Chicxulub, the Chicxulub that could come howling down to obliterate all and everything even as your eyes skim the lines of this page—where does that leave us? “You’re the parents?” We are in another room, gone deeper now, the loudspeakers murmuring their eternal incantations—Dr. Chandrasoma to Emergency, Dr. Bell, Paging Dr. Bell—and here is another nurse, grimmer, older, with lines like the strings of a tobacco pouch pulled tight around her lips. She’s addressing us, me and my wife, but I have nothing to say, either in denial or affirmation. If I claim Maddy as my own—and I’m making deals again—then I’m sure to jinx her, because those powers that might or might not be, those gods of the infinite and the minute, will see how desperately I love her and they’ll take her away just to spite me for refusing to believe in them. Voodoo, Hoodoo, Santería, Bless me, Father, for I have sinned. I hear Maureen’s voice, emerging from a locked vault, the single whispered monosyllable, and then: “Is she going to be all right?” “I don’t have that information,” the nurse says, and her voice is neutral, robotic even. This is not her daughter. Her daughter’s at home, asleep in a pile of Teddy bears, pink sheets, fluffy pillows, the night-light glowing like the all-seeing eye of a sentinel. I can’t help myself. It’s that neutrality, that maddening clinical neutrality, and can’t anybody take any responsibility for anything? “What information do you have?” I say, and maybe I’m too loud, maybe I am. “Isn’t that your job, for Christ’s sake—to know what’s going on here? You call us up in the middle of the night—our daughter’s hurt, she’s been in an accident, and you tell me you don’t have any fucking information?” People turn their heads, eyes burn into us. They’re slouched in orange plastic chairs, stretched out on the floor, praying, pacing, their lips moving in silence. They want information, too. We all want information. We want news, good news: it was all a mistake, minor cuts and bruises—contusions, that’s the word—and your daughter, son, husband, grandmother, first cousin twice removed will be walking through that door over there any minute. . . . The nurse drills me with a look, and then she’s coming out from behind the desk, a short woman, dumpy—almost a dwarf—and striding briskly to a door, which swings open on another room, deeper yet. “If you’ll just follow me, please,” she says. Suddenly sheepish, I duck my head and comply, two steps behind Maureen. This room is smaller, an examining room, with a set of scales and charts on the walls and its slab of a table covered with a sheet of antiseptic paper. “Wait here,” the nurse tells us, already shifting her weight to make her escape. “The doctor will be in in a minute.” “What doctor?” I want to know. “What for? What does he want?” But the door has already drawn closed. I turn to Maureen. She’s standing there in the middle of the room, afraid to touch anything or to sit down or even to move for fear of breaking the spell. She’s listening for footsteps, her eyes fixed on the door. I hear myself murmur her name, and then she’s in my arms, sobbing, and I know I should hold her, know that we both need it, the human contact, the love and support, but all I feel is the burden of her—there is nothing and no one that can make this better, can’t she see that? I don’t want to console or be consoled. I don’t want to be touched. I just want my daughter back. Maureen’s voice comes from so deep in her throat I can barely make out what she’s saying. It takes a second to register, even as she pulls away from me, her face crumpled and red, and this is her prayer, whispered aloud: “She’s going to be all right, isn’t she?” “Sure,” I say, “sure she is. She’ll be fine. She’ll have some bruises, that’s for sure, maybe a couple broken bones even . . . ” and I trail off, trying to picture it, the crutches, the cast, the Band-Aids, the gauze: our daughter returned to us in a halo of shimmering light. “Maybe she broke her arm—she could break her arm. That would— Or her leg, even her leg. But why would she be in surgery? Why would she be in surgery so long? Why? Why would that be?” I don’t have an answer to that. I don’t want to have an answer. “It was a car,” Maureen says. “A car, Ted. A car hit her.” The room seems to tick and buzz with the fading energy of the larger edifice, and I can’t help thinking of the congeries of wires strung inside the walls, the cables bringing power to the X-ray lab, the EKG and EEG machines, the life-support systems, and of the myriad pipes and the fluids that they drain. A car. Three thousand pounds of steel, chrome, glass, iron. “What was she even doing walking like that? She knows better than that.” My wife nods, the wet ropes of her hair beating at her shoulders like the flails of the penitents. “She probably had a fight with Kimberly—I’ll bet that’s it. I’ll bet anything.” “Where is the son of a bitch?” I snarl. “This doctor—where is he?” We are in that room, in that purgatory of a room, for a good hour or more. Twice I thrust my head out the door to give the nurse an annihilating look, but there is no news, no doctor, nothing. And then, at quarter past two, the inner door swings open, and there he is, a man too young to be a doctor, an infant with a smooth bland face and hair that rides a wave up off his brow, and he doesn’t have to say a thing, not a word, because I can see what he’s bringing us and my heart seizes with the shock of it. He looks to Maureen, looks to me, then drops his eyes. “I’m sorry,” he says. When it comes, the meteor will punch through the atmosphere and strike the Earth in the space of a single second, vaporizing on impact and creating a fireball that will in that moment achieve temperatures of sixty thousand degrees Kelvin, or ten times the surface reading of the sun. If it is Chicxulub-size and it hits one of our landmasses, some two hundred thousand cubic kilometres of the Earth’s surface will be thrust up into the atmosphere, even as the thermal radiation of the blast sets fire to the Earth’s cities and forests. This will be succeeded by seismic and volcanic activity on a scale unknown in human history, and then the dark night of cosmic winter. If it should land in the sea, as the Chicxulub meteor did, it would spew superheated water into the atmosphere, instead, extinguishing the light of the sun and triggering the same scenario of seismic catastrophe and eternal winter, while simultaneously sending out a rippling ring of water three miles high to rock the continents as if they were saucers in a dishpan. So what does it matter? What does anything matter? We are powerless. We are bereft. And the gods—all the gods of all the ages combined—are nothing but a rumor. The gurney is the focal point in a room of gurneys, people laid out as if there’d been a war, the beaked noses of the victims poking up out of the maze of sheets like a series of topographic blips on a glaciated plain. These people are alive still, fluids dripping into their veins, machines monitoring their vital signs, nurses hovering over them like ghouls, but they’ll be dead soon, all of them. That much is clear. But the gurney, the one against the back wall with the sheet pulled up over the impossibly small and reduced form—this is all that matters. The doctor leads us across the room, speaking in a low voice of internal injuries, a ruptured spleen, trauma, the brain stem, and I can barely control my feet. Can I tell you how hard it is to lift this sheet? Thin percale, and it might as well be made of lead, iron, iridium, might as well be the repository of all the dark matter in the universe. The doctor steps back, hands folded before him. The entire room or triage ward or whatever it is holds its breath. Maureen moves in beside me till our shoulders are touching, till I can feel the flesh and the heat of her pressing into me, and I think of this child we made together, this thing under the sheet, and the hand clenches at the end of my arm, the fingers there, prehensile, taking hold. The sheet draws back millimetre by millimetre, the slow striptease of death—and I can’t do this, I can’t—until Maureen lunges forward and jerks the thing off in a single violent motion. It takes us a moment—the shock of the bloated and discolored flesh, the crusted mat of blood at the temple and the rag of the hair, this obscene violation of everything we know and expect and love—before the surge of joy hits us. Maddy is a redhead, like her mother, and though she’s seventeen, she’s as rangy and thin as a child, with oversized hands and feet, and she never did pierce that smooth sweet run of flesh beneath her lower lip. I can’t speak. I’m rushing still with the euphoria of this new mainline drug I’ve discovered, soaring over the room, the hospital, the whole planet. Maureen says it for me: “This is not our daughter.” Our daughter is not in the hospital. Our daughter is asleep in her room beneath the benevolent gaze of the posters on the wall—Britney and Brad and Justin—her things scattered around her as if laid out for a rummage sale. Our daughter has in fact gone to Hana Sushi at the mall, as planned, and Kimberly has driven her home. Our daughter has, unbeknownst to us or anyone else, fudged the rules a bit—the smallest thing in the world, nothing really, the sort of thing every teen-ager does without thinking twice. She has loaned her I.D. to her second-best friend, Kristi Cherwin, because Kristi is sixteen and Kristi wants to see—is dying to see—the movie at the Cineplex with Brad Pitt in it, the one rated NC-17. Our daughter doesn’t know that we’ve been to the hospital, doesn’t know about Alice K. Petermann and the pinot noir and the glasses left on the bar, doesn’t know that even now the phone is ringing at the Cherwins’. I am sitting on the couch with a drink, staring into the ashes of the fire. Maureen is in the kitchen with a mug of Ovaltine, gazing vacantly out the window where the first streaks of light have begun to limn the trunks of the trees. I try to picture the Cherwins—they’ve been to the house a few times, Ed and Lucinda—and I draw a blank until a backlit scene from the past presents itself, a cookout at their place, the adults gathered around the grill with gin-and-tonics, the radio playing some forgotten song, the children, our daughters, riding their bikes up and down the cobbled drive, making a game of it, spinning, dodging, lifting the front wheels from the ground even as their hair fans out behind them and the sun crashes through the trees. Flip a coin ten times and it could turn up heads ten times in a row—or not once. The rock is coming, the new Chicxulub, hurtling through the dark and the cold to remake our fate. But not tonight. Not for me. For the Cherwins, it’s already here. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
La Ragazza	The first time Orso sees the new maid, he thinks she is a living doll. Not in the dated American slang sense—with which he is familiar because he was once married to a woman from New England (that overeducated and thorny beauty would never have used the phrase, but somehow in her chilly Puritan environs he brushed against it and picked it up like a burr)—but in a literal sense: she resembles a doll. The maid’s name is Caterina Zupancic, and she is Romanian, like so many of the maids in Turin these days, the ones whom Orso hears his wife, Lili, and her friends discussing in minute detail, as women always discuss their domestic help. Each maid is invariably referred to not by name but as either la colf—short for collaboratrice familiare, or family helper—or la ragazza, the girl. This particular girl has a flat, almost perfectly round face. Her cheeks, slightly scarred by acne, have a puffy droop that suggests childish sullenness or a case of the mumps. Then there are black eyes that seem to be set flush with the surface of her skin, a conventional rosebud mouth, and, barely restrained with a plastic clip, an almost inhumanly abundant mass of black hair, thick and wiry, with a coarse gleam that makes it look synthetic. Like the most successful maids, she is not beautiful and not too young. If she is a doll—Orso amuses himself by thinking—she is a slightly battered one, dragged around by the legs, left out in the rain, undressed with the cruel energy of an excessively loving little mistress. The interview takes place, irritatingly, in Orso’s study—irritatingly because he hates the way that Lili, wise in so many other matters, drags him into the endless hiring and firing of their foreign domestic workers. The girl is wearing a carefully pressed pair of jeans that delineate a sturdy, flat bottom; also a pair of worn ankle boots and a blouse of some cheap flowered material whose large collar suggests a convent uniform. Her documents—reassuringly in order—say that she is thirty-two, but she stands in front of Orso’s desk with her spine straight and her hands clasped behind her back like a pupil at a school recitation. With her eyes cast down, she tells him, in a high fluting voice, that she was trained as a nurse, and Lili nods approvingly in the background. Also standing and grinning in the background is Milan, the Romanian handyman who found Caterina for them when their previous maid quit. Milan, a wiry rascal with rings in both ears, is married but a notorious womanizer among the maids of the neighborhood, and he is staring wolfishly at Caterina. When the interview is over and the girl turns to go, Orso sees Milan slyly pinch her upper arm. Caterina flushes a dull red and moves away with a hopeless sort of slowness, like a penned animal, and Orso, who is a warmhearted, impulsive man, feels an unexpected flash of anger. For the first three months or so, Lili is enthusiastic about the new maid, who is so much better than the string of disasters they’ve had over the past year, since Pernotta, the faithful Sardinian who’d been with them for eight years, decamped to marry a tobacconist from Bolzano. Since then, there have been officious Filipinas who dropped unfinished any task that overran union hours; a melancholy Peruvian who sobbed through the ironing; a thickly lipsticked Moldavian, brilliant at cooking, whom they discovered to be a kleptomaniac after she’d stolen two tea kettles; a tall, practical-looking Piedmontese whom they fired after the first dinner, when she served a roast chicken with the head and feet intact. Slapstick catastrophes that have almost convinced the small and efficient Lili that she’d be better off muddling through without a live-in servant. But there’s the apartment to think of. Two elaborately panelled floors and a terrace at the top of an Art Nouveau house in the Crocetta district: huge, and as complicated and demanding as an elderly relative. And though Orso and Lili have no children—this is a second marriage for Lili, a third for Orso, and Orso’s grownup half-American daughters live, respectively, in Palo Alto and Tokyo—they entertain a lot. Orso’s job as a sourcing consultant to European manufacturers requires it. The younger son of a family of Padua intellectuals, Orso has many famous friends. Men love him for his generous, convivial nature, while women are drawn to the innocent, greedy look in his boyish blue eyes. Their dinner table has become one of the important salons of Turin, and their parties—two or three a week—are carefully planned to appear casual and relaxed, in a way that appeals to the professors, journalists, C.E.O.s, leftist politicians, and members of the European Parliament who meet at their house. The food may be simple—sometimes Piedmontese, sometimes peasant recipes from his and Lili’s home region in the Veneto, sometimes Chinese and Singaporean dishes, prepared in Lili’s quick and expert fashion—but the details have to be impeccable with such people. Lili finds in Caterina a true “family collaborator,” an intelligent but unpretentious woman who listens to directions, observes the way her employer wants things, and then swiftly anticipates her desires. A pearl. Awakening at dawn in her comfortable room under the eaves—a room that, as Lili is quick to point out, is not the usual maid’s cell but a former guest room, sunny and well heated, with a first-rate shower and satellite TV—Caterina fixes coffee for Lili and Orso, and has begun putting the house in order by eight o’clock. In the afternoon, she washes and irons, and prepares the evening meal. She is not garrulous and intrusive, like Pernotta, but as silent and efficient as a Filipina, her presence in a room signalled by the hum of the vacuum cleaner or by the smell of bleach and water which, in the old-fashioned manner, she uses to clean windows and stone floors. Her constant companion is the low crooning of the radio, set unvaryingly on Radio Maria, the Catholic station. She goes to confession on Thursday afternoons at the Romanian church on Via della Consolata, and to Mass early on Sunday mornings at the hilltop cathedral of Superga. She never pesters Lili for extra time to go out, as most colfs her age do, nor is she man-crazy and continually getting calls on a cell phone. The girl seems perfect—like those legendary housemaids that grandmothers always reminisce about, who came as orphans from convents and stayed for a lifetime, until they were just as much a part of the big Veneto farmhouses as the ancient round pillars that flanked the gates. “Wouldn’t it be fabulous to have her for life,” Lili jokes in bed one night to Orso, who agrees, though he is bored by the subject of maids in general. When Lili gets infatuated with a new girl and rattles on about the maid’s inevitable boyfriend or passport problems, adding empathetic vignettes of miserable childhoods in appalling foreign countries, Orso presses an imaginary mute button and thinks serenely about work. There is only one problem, Lili goes on, oblivious of his lack of interest, and that is that she’s got a body odor. Not the usual odor of unwashed hair and flesh that one sometimes has to point out to these Eastern European girls. No, Caterina is scrupulously, hygienically clean. They hear the upstairs shower running for half an hour every night. Hers is a curiously inhuman odor, strong and sterile, like that of mushrooms, which makes its way through the aura of bleach and cheap shampoo. “Probably a metabolic imbalance,” says Lili, who plans to suggest delicately that the poor girl see a specialist. If Orso is bored by maids, it is in the familiar, indulgent way that a man can be bored by sisters or female cousins, or ex-girlfriends who have become plump and unattractive. The fact is that the first cunt he ever saw belonged to a maid—Ida, who worked for his family in Padua when he was twelve. “Saw” is the crucial word; it was an unusually clinical, almost academic type of viewing. Ida, without underpants, perched precariously, legs askew, on the edge of the kitchen table, as Orso’s brother, Remo, a year older, declaimed in a pompous, pedagogic tone: “Questa, caro mio, è la fica”—“This, Orso, my boy, is the pussy.” Remo couldn’t actually have had a schoolmaster’s pointer, yet he was indicating with enough formality to suggest one: labia majora, labia minora, mons pubis, clitoris. Was he consulting a medical dictionary at the same time? It was possible. And leaning back on her elbows, giggling shameless encouragement in her singsong Friulano accent, was beautiful, brainless Ida, tall and blond and long-necked, with a head that looked as small as a goose’s. Describing the scene to his lovers over the years, Orso has romanticized what he saw between Ida’s legs as a rose, pink-lipped and crimson in its depths, and has added a swirling frame of old-fashioned petticoats—when in fact the girl wore a coverall of postwar cut that squashed her thighs grotesquely when pulled up. What he really thought it looked like was a sea creature—edged with pale moss or cilia and exuding a mollusk’s imperturbable smugness. An impression that was hardly dispelled a few evenings later when, much to Remo’s chagrin, Orso was the one pulled down onto Ida’s small hard bed, after she had invited him to her room to deliver some old copies of Corriere dei Piccoli, the children’s weekly she used to read with her lips moving after washing the dinner dishes. “Poor thing.” This was the comment of Anne, Orso’s American second wife, the mother of his children, who was quick to take up the cause of any woman against him. “What do you mean, ‘poor thing’? It was all Ida’s idea to start with. She was eighteen or nineteen—and no virgin. A good housekeeper and a great cook, too. Nobody could make knoederli like hers. And she ended up fine. Married a carabiniere and came to my mother’s funeral in a mink coat.” “Poor thing.” This was Bettina, Orso’s great love, who, throughout their six-year affair, stayed married to his business partner, Grellio. “I bet she didn’t really have petticoats like a cancan dancer. Sounds too much like Belle Epoque pornography to me. And why did your mother hire a slut like that?” “She was a brilliant laundress. Could get through my mother’s entire trousseau of linen and hemp sheets and my father’s shirts in a single day. And I think they expected her to relieve Remo and me of our virginity. That’s what bourgeois families did in those days. So we wouldn’t end up homosexual.” “Poor thing.” This was Sveva, the twenty-two-year-old assistant accountant in Orso’s office, with whom he occasionally sneaks off for a weekend. “So typical of men of your generation. You’ve all got a proto-Fascist nineteenth-century patriarchal mind-set. You’ve made the victim into an accomplice to quiet your sense of guilt.” “Poor thing,” Lili says, lying in bed. Referring not to Ida but to Caterina. Lili’s small body is curled around Orso’s large buttocks and back like a coffee spoon cradling a large tablespoon, her head against his shoulder and her narrow feet inserted in a complicated way between his big, hairy cyclist’s ankles. It is eleven at night, and they can hear Caterina moving around in the room above them. Sturdy, deliberate footsteps, the rustle of the shower. Then a pause, and a delicate tinkling sound as Caterina urinates. “Ridiculously loud,” Orso grumbles. “I never realized how bad the acoustics are between the two rooms. We hardly heard anything when Pernotta was here.” “Poor thing. Maybe she pees in an odd position. I’ve heard that some of these Eastern European girls crouch on the seat—they’ve never seen a sit-down toilet.” Lili giggles into the back of Orso’s tartan L. L. Bean pajamas that are a yearly Christmas present from Anne, and which Lili makes sure are perfectly ironed. Lili adores Orso, spoils him. She cuts his hair, or shaves it, rather, because he is balding; pedals mountain bikes through freezing mountain passes with his politician friends; imposes diets whenever he gets too fat; packs his clothes with layers of tissue paper for business trips; makes him laugh; unexpectedly keeps him interested. She is the fabulous third wife whom all of Orso’s friends predicted would come his way after a long romantic career of rigid leftist beauties, abrasive foreigners, infantile students, unreconstructed feminists, and other people’s wives. Lili doesn’t look like a helpmeet or a comfort. She is puckish, mercurial, tiny and flat-chested enough to wear boys’ undershirts, which go with her cropped brown hair. But she has a round bottom that she often slaps and calls “my redeeming feature.” Her real redeeming feature is her combination of peasant shrewdness and a genius for people. She is a live wire, a little clown with a vixen’s face and long eyelashes that she bats hilariously as she tells, in broad Veneto dialect, the anecdotes that are her specialty. Other women—including Orso’s ex-wives—love Lili, almost can’t keep their hands off her, and as teen-agers Orso’s daughters let her kiss them and tease them as they never would have allowed a parent. Important men flirt outrageously with her, as such men do with a woman who will never be available. When Orso met her nine years ago in Hong Kong, she was the sales assistant and sometime mistress of a small-time novelty importer from Genoa, unhappy about her precarious status at age thirty-five. Now with dazzling efficiency she runs three households: the Crocetta apartment; their weekend place, a modern lakeside cottage near Desenzano; and Orso’s family house, a beautiful sixteenth-century villa set in the hills near Padua, which they rent seasonally to Americans, and where Lili sometimes cooks vast harvest suppers for thirty or forty vineyard workers. Lili’s people come from the same area, but they are small shopkeepers, and indeed Orso’s upper-class family despised her a little before falling under her extraordinary spell. When Orso thinks about Lili, which is as rarely as one thinks about a healthy right arm, he imagines the indestructible high spirits of Pulcinella. The same valiant good nature that makes your throat catch as you watch a child performing with cheerful doggedness in a school play. He married her on impulse, during a trip to New York, because he discovered that, like a schoolgirl, she was carrying in her wallet four colored rubber bands she had bought from a Gypsy after making a wish: to have him—big, promiscuous Orso, with his guileless eyes and irrepressible appetites—forever. Now the husband and wife lie listening to the intimate noises that Caterina seems strangely able to project through the floor. “I wonder if she listens to us screwing,” Lili whispers. “No, the sound goes one way. Don’t you remember when we slept up there when the whole family was here before Easter? We couldn’t even hear the television from this room.” They lie silent until Orso feels Lili’s body relax and hears her break into one of her frail, questioning snores. He himself is wide awake. Excited, though not physically. Mentally. He imagines Caterina lying in the darkness above them, the sheet and quilt pulled up tight, the coarse mass of hair spread on the pillow. Does she masturbate? Orso himself has masturbated so many times in his life to the idea of this kind of lonely girl touching herself in a convent or a garret that the question is automatic, but at this moment not interesting. Sex, he thinks, is always explicable. The real conundrum is what she sees before she goes to sleep. Faces, perhaps; foreign landscapes sketched on black-and-white backgrounds as stark as the rudimentary scenes in Ida’s Corriere dei Piccoli. Housemaids’ dreams: that’s an expression, isn’t it? Yet what do these girls dream about? Is it princes or boyfriends or shiny red shoes or mothers with faces cavernous from starvation? Or does their exhaustion level everything? Orso has never been able to guess. Even the Italian maids of his childhood, with their dialects and their poverty, their stinking villages ravaged by the war, were mysteries to him. Though their bedrooms were sometimes opened to him, they remained little boxes of secrets in the family house. He falls asleep thinking of the solitary girl overhead. In the spring and early summer, Orso travels non-stop, between Turin and Rome and London and southeastern China. He has a new project, a company that will enable leading Italian manufacturers—a provincial breed he knows well—to overcome their shyness about producing in China. It seems to be the big thing he has been looking for all his life—he who, for all his property and important friends, has never had enough money. It is perhaps the thing that will finally overcome the disdain of Orso’s dead father, a legendary Marxist professor in iconic gold spectacles, a friend of Gramsci who was revered among Padua students. The father who, of course, always preferred his older son, Remo, the lawyer. Orso knows that his father, for all his leftist-intellectual-aristocratic distaste for having a son in trade, had a fundamental Veneto respect for a thumping big fortune. So Orso drums up investors, struggles through meetings with partners from Guangzhou and Suzhou, clocks thousands of air miles on Cathay Pacific, and still finds time to bed Barbara Yi, a factory owner’s divorced wife, as small-boned as Lili. Occasionally, he brings along Lili herself, who trawls the Guangzhou markets for designer knockoffs and charms the Chinese associates with her capacity for endless toasts of Rémy Martin. He himself is so charmed by his wife’s blissful happiness at travelling with him that he politely abandons Ms. Yi. He is always refreshed by coming home to the Turin apartment, especially now that everything is running so smoothly. Though he never notices domestic details, it is undeniable that everything that can gleam gleams, from his shoes to the silver picture frames. As it did in his mother’s house. He also notices: Caterina’s pajamas, on a night when the fall wind sets off the burglar alarm, and he and she nearly collide in the cold entryway, where the air is reverberating with metallic shrieks. They look exactly as he might imagine Eastern Bloc pajamas to look. Biscuit-colored leggings below a shapeless flannel nightgown sprinkled with what look like tiny maroon ants. Her unfettered breasts seem smaller than he’d imagined, cone-shaped like an African girl’s. Her round face is flushed a meaty pink, and slit-eyed with sleepiness, and her hair swarms around her head so that she looks more than ever like a toy that a rough little girl has held upside down and shaken. He presses a button and the alarm stops, and he says to her in the playful tone he can never resist using with any woman, “One of your boyfriends trying to sneak in, eh, piccola?” To this pushy remark she doesn’t reply flirtatiously, or blush, or act haughtily offended, as other girls might. She gives him one flat black glance and then heads upstairs, whispering “Good night” in a voice so faint he might have imagined it. And he notices: That Caterina, la ragazza, uses the family computer, the big, rather outdated I.B.M. in the corner of the living room. Lili has given her permission to do this, even chuckling about it in an indulgent way, as if over a clever child. Several times, coming in from a late evening, they have found Caterina bent over the keyboard. She has informed them, timidly, that they can take a few euros out of her monthly salary for her use of the Internet. What is she doing? Lili has told him that Caterina is an orphan, raised by an aunt in a village outside Bucharest, and Orso imagines her e-mails arriving on a primitive computer in the corner of a Baba Yaga hut. One day, out of curiosity, he takes a look at the sites that have been visited, and finds that Caterina has looked up documents for nursing certification in Italy. A laudable thing: the girl wants to get ahead. But another site she has visited is a strange Christian crackpot chat room, where people speculate on U.F.O.s, Madame Blavatsky, and the Holy Grail. Orso doesn’t tell Lili about this, a little ashamed of his own snooping. And: That Caterina speaks English better than Lili does, as he finds out when she takes a phone message from Anne. And: That other Romanian maids are prettier than Caterina. Visiting friends in Pino Torinese, he and Lili find the door to a bland suburban villa opened by a stunning beauty with raven eyebrows and danger in her smile. It’s another Romanian ragazza, his friend Giorgio’s colf. In a private moment after dinner, which is served with queenly indifference by the beauty, Giorgio confides to Orso that he hasn’t fucked her yet but hopes to, encouraged by a hint of sluttishness in the girl’s demeanor. “They’re all gorgeous, these Eastern European girls,” Giorgio says. “Makes you remember when everyone had Australian au pairs. That halcyon time. Look on the streets—the teen-age hookers are all Moldavian and Romanian now. Beautiful and penniless and white, the best of all worlds. You have a Romanian, too, don’t you? How’s yours?” “Not bad at all,” Orso says, summoning up a lubricious grin to defend poor, outclassed Caterina. And also: That Caterina’s hands, like all maids’ hands, are purplish from scrubbing. Raw with cleanliness. Her nails are bitten down, leaving red half-moons of gnawed skin. No one could be more self-effacing than Caterina around the house. She speaks rarely, and—except for that time in the entryway—never looks either Lili or Orso in the eye. She is at the point where she can anticipate the needs and desires of the household: market lists, the arrival of guests, the delivery of heating oil and mineral water. Lili now lets Caterina prepare desserts, including an elaborate pear-and-chocolate torte, and she is becoming famous among Lili’s female friends as a sort of pinnacle of colfdom. The only one who is not enchanted with Caterina is the portiere’s wife, Enrica, a faded sixtyish blonde, who helps out with ironing and spring cleaning, and has a gossipy maternal relationship with Lili, whom she often lures into her little soup-scented apartment under the stairs. One day, Enrica tells Lili that Caterina is clearly sex-starved: just look at those pimples on her cheeks. The next day, she hints that the girl is probably pregnant: look how much weight she has put on. And what about the peculiar friends who come to pick her up when Orso and Lili are out of town? Often there’s a silver BMW station wagon with a distinguished-looking older man, and out trips the young lady in high-heeled boots with her nose in the air. “Well, it would be interesting if she had a secret life as a prostitute,” Orso tells Lili one night. “We could hire her outside of working hours to come to bed with us. Do you fancy a threesome?” “No,” Lili says, and says nothing else, displays no satisfying outrage at Orso’s provocation. He knows he’s overstepped the line: he can say anything to Lili, but he can’t bring women she knows into their sex talk. “She’s too ugly, anyway,” he adds quickly, but Lili remains silent. Orso, in fact, doesn’t want to think of Caterina as a spicy maid from a French novel. He thinks little about her, and when he does it is a curious comfort to cancel out the silver BMW and see her as a vague sort of nun, devoted to bleach and furniture and the temple that is his home. Occasionally, when he has to walk behind her up the stairs, he recalls a line from one of Moravia’s Roman stories: “I was trying not to look at her legs, as one does with a woman one respects.” One weekend in Sicily, after he and Lili and friends have eaten lunch at a trattoria on the slopes of Mt. Etna, he passes through the gift shop and picks out from among the postcards of eruptions a small crude Madonna carved in lava. Black, faceless. “Yes, it’s exactly the kind of tacky thing she’d like,” Lili says, and loyally picks out another lava carving for Orso’s secretary. When he presents it to Caterina, she trembles and clutches it in both hands and breathes out a hoarse “Grazie,” so that Orso feels ashamed at how little he is giving. Then there is Milan, the odd-job man. Caterina has shyly told Lili how he and his hellish wife, Myrta, run a kind of way station for girls like her, illegally arrived from their home province of Ilfov, how they keep the girls locked in a room and demand exorbitant fees for getting them work and documents, threatening to report them to the immigration authorities, or, worse, to the Romanian Mafia, who will put them to work on the streets. How Milan, with his gold neck chain, struts through the girls like a rooster in a hen yard. Milan still hangs around Orso’s apartment, too, and Lili surprises him one day in the ironing room—he was supposed to be fixing an electrical socket—with his hand on Caterina’s bottom. Lili laughs, but Orso goes and speaks to Milan. Tells him that if he doesn’t keep his fucking hands off he’ll be out of a job. “You’re unusually gallant,” Lili observes. “I’m practical, dearest,” Orso says. “I’ve never had my shirts ironed so well.” Then everything changes. It starts when Orso goes to visit his brother Remo one Saturday morning in September, at his house outside the city in Castagnetto Po, and notices something odd about Remo’s complexion. It’s as if Remo, who has a nasty cough and a lingering cold, had been dipped in pink wax. His arms and legs—the brothers are in shorts, stretched out on lawn chairs in Remo’s garden—are pink, too. He looks curiously younger, idealized but not healthy, as if he had been turned into a store mannequin or one of the cheap PVC action figures made in Suzhou by Orso’s clients. Orso notes this phenomenon, but does not understand—nor does Remo—that it is a sign of incurable illness, of a body already colonized by death. This is Remo, the elder son beloved of their father, the brother who has, as one brother must, done everything right. Remo the lawyer and amiable snob, friend of every sheep-faced nobleman in Turin. A success, even though he lost a bundle starting up an Internet company in a vague, purposeless imitation of the Americans. The brother who led Orso to Turin, whom Orso sees every day when he is in the city, since their offices are in the same palazzo, and they meet in the evenings to smoke and finish each other’s sentences. The brother who, unlike feckless Orso, got married just once, and happily, to a blue-blooded veterinarian from Cuneo with sun-roughened skin, heiress to an estate in the bottomland of the Po, a paradisiacal private nature reserve full of deer and wild boar and horses as friendly as dogs. The popular brother who is a Mason and a Rotarian and a good father and a comically bad skier and a tireless expatiater on the aristocratic connections of his family. The brother who will be dead in three months of a squamous tumor on his left lung. This is not the story of how Remo discovered the tumor in September and died of it by Christmas—not the appallingly commonplace story of sudden tragedy that explodes a family like a terrorist attack and leaves the survivors groping to realign themselves in the ruins for years afterward. This is the story of Orso and Caterina and how their non-relationship flared into brief half-life with Remo’s dying. So: The family, as wealthy families can, tries everything: Sloan-Kettering, the Milan Istituto dei Tumori, an Austrian oncologist who has developed a new experimental treatment for squamous tumors. But there is nothing to be done. So thoroughly nothing to be done that a hospital bed is installed in Remo’s room in the old pink villa in the bottomland, and a family friend, the chief anesthesiologist at the Molinette hospital, comes daily, first to joke and play cards, and then not to play cards, while the nursing is done in shifts by Remo’s wife, Gemma; by Gemma’s mother and sister; by Deborah, their faithful colf (Italian) of seventeen years; and by Lili. Orso is there every day after work. He has put his travelling on hold, and seems to have endless energy, as if the life that is draining out of his brother’s body were flowing into his. He organizes the insurance and paperwork necessary to close down Remo’s legal offices, and arranges a graceful exit from the failed Internet project in which so many of their friends invested; he settles bureaucratic and practical details for Gemma and Remo’s children; he keeps up a phone and e-mail dialogue with an international circle of oncologists; he receives the relatives who arrive from all over Italy; and he sits with Remo in the evenings. Sometimes joking and reminiscing, sometimes in silence as Remo sleeps, sometimes, as time passes, listening to Remo talk in a sibilant lungless whisper. Remo was garrulous of old and can’t shake the habit. At the beginning of November, when the city is filled with chrysanthemums for the Feast of the Dead, and the family’s hopes have faded with the season, Remo looks at Orso and whispers, “Remember when we used to take tennis lessons at the Circolo, and I used to bash you over the head with my racquet?” “All the way to the bus stop. But only if I won.” “I never could stand you beating me. But now—” Remo pleats his face into a ghastly grin and speaks so low that the words are like the ashes of a whisper, “it’s I who have won.” Orso drives back into the city feeling that the darkness has become solid and is crumbling: blackness snowing down to bury him like feathery cinders do when Etna erupts. Twice he has to stop the car because the straight road beside the Po seems to have developed arbitrary curves. When he gets home, Caterina opens the door. She is dressed in the faded black flowered coverall she adopts when no guests are expected, and a pair of slouchy black leggings and slippers. She looks at him as she has never looked at him before and says, “Perhaps I can help.” “No one can help,” Orso hisses furiously. “I’m a nurse. I have worked in cancer wards in my country where there are no drugs, no equipment, nothing to help anybody. And I have a friend, Giovanni, who is a physical therapist. But more than that—a kind of healer. I don’t know how to describe it. He has power in his hands. At least he can make your brother more comfortable.” Orso is vaguely aware that Caterina is talking to him in a far more cultured Italian than he ever imagined she possessed. And that her eyes, no longer downcast in maidenly fashion, are liquid and intense. She stands there in the dark frame of the doorway like one of those faintly repulsive plaster saints or religious puppets with human hair that he has seen in Calabria or Sicily. Their faces are more beautiful than hers, but the expression is the same: tender, yet impersonal, like the angel of death. A terrible lethargy has come over him, and as he nods he feels he wants to fall down in front of her and sleep. Because the fact is that Orso can’t have anything to do with his wife these days. He is conducting a secret boycott of Lili, though he continues to talk to her, to have sex with her, to let her feed him and discreetly sympathize with him, to observe her taking expert loving care of his brother and his brother’s family. This sudden harrowing tragedy has shown like nothing else the worth of this small, vibrant woman, his third wife: she is made of pure gold. Yet in the part inside Orso that is most himself, the sanctum where his brother Remo’s skull-like grin is now on permanent display like a holy relic, he is full of chill hatred for Lili. Because of her intolerable warmth, calling him to life when he wants to sink underground with Remo. He holds himself apart from her, and she knows it and pardons him, and this makes him icier still. And, remarkably, after a few visits from Caterina’s friend, associate, lover, whatever he is—this Giovanni—Remo seems much better. “We are not talking about miracle cures,” says their oncologist friend, who was initially skeptical about expanding the physical therapy that had already been set up for Remo. “But about his comfort and serenity. And both are much improved.” Giovanni is a short, muscular, bearded bald man in his late fifties, a few years older than Orso. He has a booming bass voice with a pretentious accent, and a pair of bulging, hypnotic green eyes. Each time he goes to visit Remo, he is accompanied by another man, Moise, whom he calls a colleague—a tall, distinguished-looking man with brush-cut white hair and an eager, naïve expression. He, Orso discovers, is the driver of the mysterious silver BMW. When, during their first visit to Remo, the two men ask to be alone with the patient and shut the bedroom door, Orso makes a sudden spasmodic movement to join them, but is restrained by Caterina, who has come with them, just for the first visit. “Don’t worry,” she says. “They know what they’re doing.” For the outing, she has put on street clothes: a cheap black leather jacket with a stylish cut, a pair of gray jeans, and the spike-heeled boots mentioned critically by the portiere’s wife. Her hair is pulled back in a clip, and she seems to be wearing makeup that gives her moonface a coarse glow. If she were taller and prettier she would resemble an action-movie heroine. She speaks with a clipped confidence, a kind of professional expertise that at any other time would have surprised him. As they wait in the beautiful old farmhouse room that is Remo’s study, with its coffered ceiling and its collection of pipes and Juvarran prints, it occurs to Orso, through the fog of his distress, to wonder briefly about the relationship of this curious trio—his colf and these two unclassifiable men. Are they both fucking her? Well, of course they are. The men aren’t homosexual. Look at the eyes and the muscles on that bald-headed fellow. And, otherwise, why would two obviously middle-class Italians go around with a Romanian maid? As if she had read his mind, Caterina tells him that they know one another because they are in the same prayer circle, one connected to a Catholic group open to many different currents of thought. The two men have formed a residential community in the countryside near Asti. She says that they also write books on esoteric subjects. Their latest work is about the deeper meaning of the Tower of Babel. We are in the hands of servants and charlatans, Orso thinks. Faith healers and cultists. How much more desperate can I get? Yet, strangely enough, he feels at peace sitting there with Caterina. Permitted for a minute to take refuge from all the frantic scrambling for his brother’s—for everyone’s—survival; to freeze for a moment his awareness of the emblem of despair pinned like a corsage beside his brother’s heart. Afterward, when he hears that Remo has been able to breathe more easily, has passed hours with less morphine, and has taken a few sips of vegetable purée, Orso experiences an extravagant sense of gratitude, which he has never felt before, swelling him like a balloon. An imperial gratitude, which makes him want to heap the two men and Caterina with largesse, treasures, half a kingdom. “We don’t do this for money,” Caterina says. “And I shouldn’t say ‘we.’ I haven’t done anything.” She repeats this as he is driving her back into the city, after they have guided her friends in their silver car to the turnoff for the town near the edge of the Langhe where they live. Remo was sleeping when they left. After a respectful goodbye to Remo’s wife, Caterina and the two men conferred briefly in the driveway of Remo’s house, then kissed each other ceremoniously on the cheek. “My friends say they can come twice a week, if that is all right,” Caterina continues. “Your brother needs help to keep his muscles from atrophy.” Rage comes over Orso as abruptly as if a red cloak had dropped over his eyes. In his mind he sees Remo as he is now, as he has been trying not to see him: skeletal, his skin no longer pink but bronzed from liver dysfunction, like a thousand-year-old body found in a peat bog. “Keep him from atrophy?” he shouts. “He’s dead already! Did you see him? Did you touch him? It’s not for two faggot idiot defrocked-priest assholes to judge whether to keep him alive! It’s not for you, you stupid bitch! He weighs forty-five kilos!” He hears himself screaming this at her in a thin breaking voice, and he feels the steering wheel vibrate in his frantic grip as the car swerves. But Caterina, next to him, makes no movement of alarm. He pulls the car over to the side of the road and stops. It is late on a dark November afternoon, and they are on the two-lane state road between Castagnetto and Turin, in a dilapidated zone of small roadside shops and bars and ugly modern apartments and all the melancholy detritus of provincial life. An old woman sweeping a balcony pauses to give the expensive automobile a suspicious look. It is the area where the Army of Savoy broke through the French lines during the siege of 1706, a fact that Orso knows only because Remo, amateur historian, used to lecture him about troop dispositions and how corpses poisoned the river. Orso can still hear in his mind his brother’s bass rumble, the way fashionable obscenities invaded his declarations on historical theory, architecture, and wines (“That remodelled Juvarran façade is a cocksucking piece of shit”). He can imagine Remo as he almost always was at this hour on weekends: ensconced with friends in the cozy sitting room that seemed like an emblem of his happy marriage, sipping a Barbaresco grown by yet another of his friends, boring everyone with his amiable monologues, and punctuating his speech with theatrical flourishes of the cigarettes that would eventually kill him. The pain Orso feels at these thoughts is unbelievable. So physical he thinks for a moment that he is having a heart attack. He has always been a hypochondriac. Now for a minute he thinks he is going to die, and he realizes how ironic it is that he is going to beat the intensely competitive Remo at his own game. He can imagine his friends grief-stricken but also impressed by a certain feat of symmetry: two brothers at once. But then the pain fades into the enigmatic problem of grief. Of having to live and stay behind. And he is sitting with the motor running and the car still in gear at the side of the state road, next to a row of recycling bins overflowing with plastic bags and boxes of rubbish. At some point, he has bent forward and rested his head on the steering wheel, shaking with dry sobs. Now Caterina does several things. She leans over and puts the car in neutral and then turns the key to shut down the motor and turns off the headlights. Then she unbuckles her seat belt. And, pulling up her legs so that she is almost kneeling on the seat, she reaches awkwardly over the gearbox and with a certain difficulty puts her arms around him. She says nothing, and when Orso later hazily remembers the moment he has an impression only of silence made palpable. Silence as a living element, mixed with the feeling of the cold leather of her jacket and the strength of the arms inside it, with the banal scent of a popular perfume that Orso has smelled on his secretary, and with the curious asexual coldness of another scent, of hair and skin, that must have been the body odor Lili complained about. Caterina and Orso stay like that until a bitter comfort creeps into his body, a kind of resolve in despair that he understands is native to this girl. When Orso—out of the ingrained habit of embracing in cars with younger women—moves his hand upward to her breast, she pushes it away with a firm but not unfriendly gesture. And when she finally releases him and he sits back with a long exhalation of breath, the windows are fogged over, as one sees in parks when people have been making love in cars. As Caterina settles back into her own seat, she mutters something. “What?” Orso asks, amazed that he can form words. “I said you have to have faith. In my own language. Trebuie sa avem credinta. Credinta is faith—it’s very close to the Italian word, credere.” “Say something else in your language,” he asks, like a child. “All right,” she says patiently. “My name is Caterina. Ma numesc Caterina. I am a Romanian girl. Sunt o fata din Romania. Fata—girl, ragazza. Do you know,” she adds, with a bleak little chuckle, “that you are the only Italian who has ever asked me about my language?” “It’s a beautiful language,” Orso says blankly, and this limp compliment seems to give him the strength to start the car. They are silent for the rest of the drive. Caterina speaks only once, when they turn onto the long boulevard that borders the Valentino Park and see the roadside prostitutes lined up for the early-evening shift. Bundled unalluringly against the autumnal chill, some of them standing beside small fires, they are, as Orso’s friend Giorgio observed, all young and pretty and white. Hardly turning her head to look at them, Caterina says, “They are Romanian girls, too.” When Remo dies, on the night of Santo Stefano, twenty-four hours after a huge gloomy family Christmas dinner held at Orso’s house, many things come to an end. Remo’s legendary marriage, for one. The brave Gemma looks oddly diminished, staggering slightly as she walks, as if she had suffered a small stroke or lost an actual limb. There is the dissolution of the group of old friends who used to meet at Remo’s house. And, for Orso, the conclusion of the competition that has absorbed him since he was born. His extended childhood has finished, the curtain has fallen on his role as a younger brother. Returning home at dawn from a night spent in the various numbing chores that follow a death, he walks in the fog among the horse chestnuts and gingerbread mansions near his apartment and grapples with the fact, like an unwieldy tool in his hand, that he is now the head of the family. He feels the weight of this at the funeral, in the neoclassical spaces of the Gran Madre di Dio—a church that Remo, enthusiast of the baroque, always detested—surrounded by a horde of relatives and Remo’s friends in a sea of furs and cashmere overcoats. Seated between Gemma and Lili, watching his first ex-wife try to steal the scene by sobbing theatrically, smelling the incense, listening to the tearful address of the bishop—another friend of Remo’s—and wondering automatically, as one does at funerals, when the dead person is going to walk in, Orso feels as if he had inherited the job of ringmaster in a particularly sombre circus. Later, it is only the weight of the oak on his shoulders, the attempt to stay in step with the other coffin bearers, that gives him an estimation of the amount of grief he has hoarded up to consume in private. That and a face he sees while passing down the church steps and through the crowd. Caterina, white as paper, eyes rimmed with red in a way that touches him strangely: an icon of his own mourning. She must have taken the tram from the apartment; no one thought to invite her. Their eyes meet, then brush past. The other thing that ends at this time is the happy domestic situation at Orso’s house. The equilibrium and complicity—the all-important “collaboration”—between Lili and Caterina begins to disintegrate almost immediately after the episode in the car. Lili is no fool: she knows infidelity, the important kind, when she smells it, and she, who has pardoned every bumbling sexual misdemeanor on Orso’s part, cannot tolerate the climate of understanding that has sprung up between her husband and the colf. It is not, Lili argues with herself, as if they were exchanging glances—not as if there were the electricity of suppressed mutual desire. Caterina is still satisfyingly unattractive. She is clearly in love with Orso, but then almost all maids who are not mistreated are in love with the master of the house. But there is an atmosphere of comprehension, of sympathy, of mysterious tolerance, which, Lili thinks, should not exist. Not between Caterina and Orso, now that Orso is wandering in the wreck of his love for his brother. Not while Orso is still, as Lili knows, conducting his secret boycott of his wife. The upshot is that the girl, Caterina, la ragazza, has to go. As all colfs eventually do, whether it is to get married or because they are lazy or inept or in disgrace, or because they have found more money or an easier situation elsewhere. Or because—and this is rare—they have finished their stint in the foreign country and are going back home with their fortune. So in late January, with Orso safely in China, Lili speaks gently to Caterina. She tells her that she and Orso are making a change and that they will need the attic room. And because they will have less space they want a woman who comes in by the hour. There is, of course, no haste. Caterina will have sterling references and the tredicesima and all the severance pay that the union is so strict about for foreign workers. And a month to find another job. Perhaps they can even help her get her Italian certification as a nurse. Orso has a friend in the Ministry of Health. Caterina stands in her old black flowered coverall and black leggings, her face expressionless. “Signora,” she says finally, “I’ve done nothing wrong.” Lili reassures her. She praises Caterina’s abilities and gives her a present: a beautiful freshwater-pearl necklace. “For when you marry,” Lili says. “Marry?” Caterina echoes faintly, the necklace dangling from her hand. The two women avoid each other’s eyes. And in fact Lili soon appreciates her own wisdom in letting Caterina go, because over the next month, Caterina’s last with them, the girl seems to go slightly mad. Radio Maria, always an annoyance, now blasts Rosaries and choral Masses through the house at full volume, and Caterina seems genuinely surprised when asked to turn it down. Looking at the shopping receipts, Lili finds with amazement that the girl is going through two jugs of bleach a week, doing the laundry in solutions so strong that the linen sheets develop holes and colored shirts and jeans are ruined. She uses it on the floors and windows, too, until one day Lili comes home to find the dog whimpering in the entryway and the entire house enveloped in the unbreathable stink of chlorine. By accident, Caterina puts Lili’s favorite black crêpe-de-chine dress in the washing machine and shrinks it to the size of a child’s garment. Reprimanded for all this, Caterina wrings her hands and moans, “It’s because I’m so stupid!” On Valentine’s Day, Caterina races to the empty mailbox fifteen times, and then walks around with a tragic face. She takes to spending her own money on flowers: big bunches of lilies of the valley bought at an exorbitant price from the florist on Corso Vittorio, which she keeps in a jar on the kitchen table where she eats her solitary meals. When they check the sites she has visited on the computer, they find chat rooms on obsession and hypnosis. “Get rid of her right away!” Enrica, the portiere’s wife, says to Lili. “All these Eastern European girls are witches, even if they don’t know it. You’ll find your hair falling out, and worse.” “Caterina honestly doesn’t mean harm,” Lili tells Orso on the phone. “It’s like something is acting through her, like she’s possessed.” Orso grunts noncommittally. Though at first he objected to the idea of sending Caterina away, it seems much easier to give Lili what she wants. He doesn’t want to hear about feminine craziness. And he feels a visceral distaste at the idea of two women at odds under his roof. Why is it that women can never get along, as they did in harems and old-fashioned Chinese households? Since Remo died, Orso has deliberately spent a lot of time out of the country and has revived his affair with Barbara Yi in Suzhou. “Give her a little something extra and send her away early,” he suggests, finally. “But be sure,” he adds, with something like a twinge of guilt, “be sure that you find someone else who understands my shirts.” With her excellent references, Caterina immediately finds a job, at double her previous pay, nursing a rich old woman in the Monferrato countryside. She leaves Orso and Lili’s house on friendly terms, and in its usual state of gleaming orderliness, especially the attic room, which looks as if it had never been lived in. As is correct, she leaves behind her uniforms, both formal and the coveralls for dirty work. The only other things she leaves behind are the black lava Madonna that Orso gave her and the pearl necklace from Lili, both of which are placed in the center of the attic-room desk. Thirteen months later, Orso encounters Caterina’s friend Giovanni the Healer (so Orso thinks of him) in a parking lot. They are outside one of the huge chain sporting-goods stores on the periphery of the city, where Orso has gone to shop for skis at a clearance sale. Giovanni, bald and muscular as ever, is loading a shiny new racing bike into the back of the familiar silver BMW. They greet each other, and Orso winces inwardly at the excessive, vaguely sacerdotal sympathy in the booming voice of the other man, who is wearing a colorful polo shirt and tight jeans that show off his boxy thighs, and who continues to affect an upper-class accent. Unwillingly, Orso allows himself to be embraced, to be addressed with the intimate tu. In the process, he has to admit that there is some unusual element, some power, in Giovanni’s touch. Orso asks for news of Caterina, and Giovanni informs him that the old woman in Monferrato was so disagreeable that Caterina left the job after a few months, took part-time unregistered work in clinics here and there, and then disappeared from view. He and his dear friends in the sacred community, as he calls them, have heard nothing further. He knows that she was having some trouble with her documents. She may have had to go back to Romania. Giovanni does not seem overly concerned. “A sweet girl,” he says, with an unmistakable note of condescension, and then asks Orso whether he and Lili might not enjoy attending a special alternative Easter celebration out at the community center. Driving home, having extricated himself by giving a large Easter contribution to Giovanni, who is no longer shy about taking money, Orso reflects that Caterina, of all the people he has ever known, is the most alone—without friends, without family, and not even cared for by the charismatic cult that everyone had assumed absorbed strays like her. Giovanni and the others, he thinks, would have taken part of her modest salary, and probably used her indifferently for sex, before letting her go in favor of prettier girls or richer prey. And yet Caterina had brought what was best, what was genuinely divine among all the dross in Giovanni, to help Remo. She had brought comfort to Orso’s brother, who would hardly have recognized her face, and she had held Orso in her arms. All for nothing, or for the kind of love that in its extreme humility expects no return. For a minute, driving along, he feels hot and cold with shame at the way he treated her. But then he seems to hear Remo’s voice, as he does quite often these days, oracular, slightly pompous, saying things he never said but which sound like him: “What more could you have done, after all, old man? And in the end, from where I am, does it matter?” Still, he finds himself wondering about Caterina, long after Lili has found an excellent pair of Peruvian girls, sisters, to come in alternately, morning and evening. The attic room has been turned into a computer room, and Orso and Lili are, in fact, much more tranquil now that they are alone in the house at night. Maids, even the most feckless, are always reappearing on the scene, whether they are asking for new references or sending scribbled greetings on postcards from seaside resorts. But never a word comes from Caterina, and the completeness of her disappearance is a demonstration, Orso thinks, of how the humble of the world can sink from view. He pictures her in a convent somewhere, or in a nightmarish Romanian hospital, caring for incurables, who in the democracy of their misery look passionately on her plain face. Sometimes, driving past the prostitutes along the park road, he feels a thrilled apprehension at the idea that he might see her among them, though these pitiable girls are very young, almost children, and far prettier than Caterina. And on Thursday afternoons, when he crosses the city and passes tram stops crowded with foreign colfs of all colors celebrating their afternoon off, he sometimes thinks he sees a round, flat face, a doll’s stiff figure, a crown of too thick hair. Likewise at night, returning home with Lili, from a dinner or a party, he studies the constellation of attic lights twinkling under the low Turin skies. At these moments he feels himself recalling her words in the idle persistent way that one jingles loose change in one’s pocket: Ma numesc Caterina. Fata. Ragazza. Credinta. Faith. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Last Words on Earth	When they write my obituary. Tomorrow. Or the next day. It will say, “Leo Gursky is survived by an apartment full of shit.” I’m surprised I haven’t been buried alive. I have to struggle to keep a path clear between bed and toilet, toilet and kitchen table, table and front door. If I want to get from the toilet to the front door, I have to go by way of the kitchen table. I like to imagine the bed as home plate, the toilet as first, the kitchen table as second, the front door as third: should the doorbell ring while I am lying in bed, I have to round the toilet and the kitchen table in order to arrive at the door. If it happens to be Bruno, I let him in without a word and then jog back to bed, the roar of the invisible crowd ringing in my ears. I often wonder who will be the last person to see me alive. If I had to bet, I’d bet on the delivery boy from the Chinese takeout. I order in four nights out of seven. Whenever he comes, I make a big production of finding my wallet. He stands at the door holding the greasy bag while I wonder if this is the night I’ll finish off my spring roll, climb into bed, and have a heart attack in my sleep. I try to make a point of being seen. Often when I’m out I’ll buy a juice, even if I’m not thirsty. If the store is crowded, I’ll sometimes go so far as to drop my change all over the floor, the nickels and dimes skidding in every direction. I’ll go into the Athlete’s Foot and say, “What do you have in sneakers?” The clerk will look me over like the poor schmuck that I am and direct me to the one pair of Rockports they carry, something in spanking white. “Nah,” I’ll say, “I have those already,” and then I’ll make my way over to the Reeboks and pick out something that doesn’t even resemble a shoe, a waterproof bootie, maybe, and ask for it in size 9. The kid will look again, more carefully. “Size 9,” I’ll repeat, holding his gaze while I clutch the webbed shoe. He’ll shake his head and go to the back for them, and by the time he returns I’m peeling off my socks. I’ll roll my pant legs up and look down at those decrepit things my feet, and an awkward minute will pass until it becomes clear that I’m waiting for him to slip the booties onto them. I never actually buy. All I want is not to die on a day when I went unseen. A few months ago, I saw an ad in the paper. It said, “needed: nude model for drawing class. $15 an hour.” It seemed too good to be true. To have so much looked at. By so many. I called the number. A woman told me to come the following Tuesday. I tried to describe myself, but she wasn’t interested. “Anything will do,” she said. The days passed slowly. I told Bruno about it, but he misunderstood. He thought I was signing up for a drawing class in order to see nude girls. He didn’t want to be corrected. “Their breasts?”he asked. “They show their boobs?” I shrugged. “And down there?” After Mrs. Freid on the fourth floor died and it took three days for anyone to find her, Bruno and I got into the habit of checking on each other. We’d make little excuses—“I ran out of toilet paper,” I’d say when Bruno opened his door. A day would pass. There would be a knock on my door. “I lost my TV Guide,” he’d explain, and I’d go and find him mine, even though I knew his was right where it always was, on his couch. Once, he came down on a Sunday afternoon. “I need a cup of flour,” he said. It was clumsy, but I couldn’t help myself. “You don’t know how to cook,” I said. There was a moment of silence. Bruno looked me in the eye. “What do you know,” he said. “I’m baking a cake.” When I came to America, I knew hardly anyone, only a second cousin who was a locksmith, so I worked for him. If he’d been a shoemaker, I would have been a shoemaker; if he had shovelled shit, I, too, would have shovelled. But he was a locksmith, he taught me the trade, and that’s what I became. We had a little business together, and then one year he got TB. They had to cut his liver out, and he got a 106 temperature and died, so I took it over. I went on sending his wife half the profits, even after she married a doctor and moved to Bayside. I stayed in the business for more than fifty years. It’s not what I would have imagined for myself. And yet. The truth is I came to like it. I helped in those who were locked out; others I helped keep out what shouldn’t be let in, so that they could sleep without nightmares. Then one day I was looking out the window. Maybe I was contemplating the sky. Put even a fool in front of the window and you’ll get a Spinoza; in the end life makes window-watchers of us all. The afternoon went by; little grains of darkness sifted down. I reached for the chain on the bulb and suddenly it was as if an elephant had stepped on my heart. I fell to my knees. I thought, I didn’t live forever. A minute passed. Another minute. Another. I clawed at the floor, pulling myself along toward the phone. Twenty-five per cent of my heart muscle died. It took time to recover, and I never went back to work. I stared out the window. I watched fall turn into winter, winter into spring. I dragged myself upstairs to sit with Bruno. Bruno and I were friends when we were boys. When I came to America, I thought he was dead, and then one day I was walking down East Broadway and I heard his voice. I turned around. He was standing in front of the grocer’s asking the price of some fruit. I thought, You’re hearing things, you’re such a dreamer, what is the likelihood—your boyhood friend? I stood frozen on the sidewalk. He’s in the ground, I told myself. It’s fifty years later, here you are in the United States of America, there’s McDonald’s, get a grip. I waited just to make sure. I wouldn’t have recognized his face. But the way he walked was unmistakable—skipping along like a bird. He was about to pass me. I put my arm out and grabbed his sleeve. “Bruno,” I said. He stopped and turned. At first he seemed scared and then confused. “Bruno,” I said. He looked at me; his eyes filled with tears. He touched his hand to my cheek; with the other he held a bag of plums. “Bruno.” A couple of years later, his wife died. Living in their apartment without her was too much for him, so when an apartment opened up on the floor above me he moved in. We often sit together at my kitchen table. A whole afternoon can go by without our saying a word. If we do talk, we never speak in Yiddish. The words of our childhood became strangers to us long ago—we couldn’t use them in the same way, and so we chose not to use them at all. Life demanded a new language. When I was a boy, I liked to write. I wrote three books before I was twenty-one. The first was about S., the village in Poland where I lived. I drew a map of it for the frontispiece, labelling each house and shop: here was Kipnis the butcher, and here Pinsky the tailor, and here lived Fishl Shapiro, who was either a great tzaddik or an idiot, no one could decide, and here the village square and the field where we played, and here where the forest began, and here stood the tree from which Beyla Asch had hanged herself, and here and here. And yet. When I gave it to the only person in S. whose opinion I cared about, she just shrugged and said maybe it would be better if I made things up. So I wrote a second book, and I filled it with men who grew wings, and trees with their roots growing into the sky, and people who forgot their own names, and people who couldn’t forget anything. When it was finished, I ran all the way to her house. I leaned against a wall and watched her face as she read it. It got dark outside, but she kept reading. Hours went by. I slid to the floor. When she finished, she looked up. At first she didn’t speak. Then she said that perhaps I shouldn’t make up everything, because that made it hard to believe anything. Another person might have given up. I started again. This time I didn’t write about real things and I didn’t write about imaginary things. I wrote about the only thing I knew. I made a book of my love for her. I wrote and I wrote. The pages piled up. I was saying everything for the first time. Even after the only person whose opinion I cared about had left on a boat for America, I continued to fill pages with her name. Soon after she left, everything fell apart. Hitler invaded Poland. There were rumors of unfathomable things, and because we could not fathom them we failed to believe them—until we had no choice and it was too late. By the time I believed, I’d shed the only part of me that had ever thought I’d find words for even the smallest bit of life. And yet. A couple of months after my heart attack, fifty-seven years after I’d given it up, I started to write again. I did it for myself alone; that was the difference. I knew it would be impossible to find the right words. And because I accepted that what I’d once believed possible was, in fact, impossible, and because I knew that I would never show a page of it to anyone, I wrote a sentence: I fell in love when I was ten. It remained there, staring up from the otherwise blank page for days. The next week I added another. Soon there was a whole page. It made me happy. Like I said, I was doing it for myself. Once, I said to Bruno, “Take a guess. How many pages do you think I have?” “No idea,” Bruno said. “Write a number,” I said, “and slip it across the table.” He shrugged and took a pen out of his pocket. He thought for a minute or two, studying my face. “A ballpark guess,” I said. He hunched over his napkin, scrawled a number, and turned it over. I wrote down the real number, 301, on my own napkin. We pushed the napkins across the table. I picked up Bruno’s. For reasons I can’t explain, he had written 200,000. He picked up my napkin and turned it over. His face fell. Sometimes I open my book and read from it at random. There are passages I know by heart. By heart—this is not an expression I use lightly. My heart is weak and unreliable. I try to burden it as little as possible. If something is going to have an impact, I direct it elsewhere. My gut, for example, or my lungs. When I pass a mirror and catch a glimpse of myself, or I’m at the bus stop and some kids come up behind me and say, “Who smells shit?”—small daily humiliations that are par for the course—these I take, generally speaking, in my liver. The pancreas I reserve for being struck by all that’s been lost. It’s true that there’s so much, and the organ is so small. But. You would be surprised how much it can take. When I wake up and my fingers are stiff, almost certainly I was dreaming of my childhood. All the times I have suddenly remembered that my parents are dead (even now it still surprises me to exist in the world while those who made me have ceased to exist): my knees. To everything a season; to every time I’ve woken only to make the mistake of believing for a moment that someone is sleeping beside me: a hemorrhoid. Loneliness: there is no organ that can take it all. Once upon a time there was a boy. He lived in a village that no longer exists, in a house that no longer exists, on the edge of a field that no longer exists. Once upon a time there was a boy who lived in a house across the field from a girl who no longer exists. They made up a thousand games. They collected the world in small handfuls, and they were never unfair to each other, not once. When the sky grew dark, they parted with burrs in their clothes and leaves in their hair. When they were ten, he asked her to marry him. When they were eleven, he kissed her for the first time. When they were thirteen, they got into a fight and for three terrible weeks they didn’t talk. When they were fifteen, she showed him the scar on her left breast. Their love was a secret they told no one. He promised her he would never love another girl as long as he lived. “What if I die?” she asked. “Even then,” he said. For her sixteenth birthday, he gave her a Polish-English dictionary and together they studied the words. “What’s this?” he’d ask, tracing his index finger around her ankle, and she’d look it up. “And this?” he’d ask, kissing her elbow. “ ‘Elbow’! What kind of word is that?” And then he’d lick it, making her giggle. When they were seventeen, they made love for the first time, on a bed of straw in a shed. Later—when things had happened that they never could have imagined—she wrote him a letter that said, “When will you learn that there isn’t a word for everything?” Once upon a time there was a boy who loved a girl whose father was shrewd enough to scrounge together all the zlotys he had to send his daughter on a boat to America. At first she refused to go, but the boy also knew enough to insist, swearing on his life that he’d earn some money and find a way to follow her. He got a job as a janitor at a hospital and he saved as much as he could. But, in the summer of 1941, the Einsatzkommandos drove their armies farther east; on a bright, hot day in July, they entered S. At that hour, the boy happened to be lying on his back in the woods, thinking about the girl. You could say it was his love for her that saved him. In the years that followed, the boy became a man who became invisible. In this way, he escaped death. Once upon a time the man who had become invisible arrived in America. He had spent four years hiding, mostly in trees but also in cellars and holes. Then the Russian tanks rolled in. For five months, he lived in a displaced-persons camp. He got word to his cousin, who was a locksmith in America. In his head, he practiced over and over the only words he knew in English. Knee. Elbow. Ear. Finally, his papers came through. He took a train to a boat, and after a week of passage arrived in New York Harbor. Folded in his hand was the girl’s address. That night, he lay awake on the floor of his cousin’s room. The radiator clanged and hissed, but he was grateful for the warmth. In the morning, his cousin explained to him how to take the subway to Brooklyn. Only as his finger pressed her doorbell did it cross his mind that perhaps he should have called, so as not to give her a heart attack. She opened the door. She wore a blue scarf over her hair. He could hear the broadcast of a ballgame through the neighbor’s wall. Once upon a time the woman who had been a girl got on a boat to America and threw up all the way there, not because she was seasick but because she was pregnant. When she found out, she wrote to the boy. Every day, she waited for a letter from him, but none came. She got bigger and bigger. She tried to hide it so as not to lose her job at the dress factory. A few weeks before the baby was born, she got a letter from someone who told her what had happened to the town of S. She stopped going to work. She couldn’t bring herself to get out of bed. After a week, the son of her boss came to see her. He brought her food to eat and put a bouquet of flowers in a vase by her bed. When he found out that she was pregnant, he called a midwife. A baby boy was born. One day, the girl sat up in bed and saw the son of her boss rocking the child in a shaft of sunlight. After a year, she agreed to marry him. Two years later, she had another child. The man who had become invisible stood in her living room, listening to her story. He had changed so much in five years that now part of him wanted to laugh a hard, cold laugh. She gave him a small photograph of the boy, who was now five. Her hand was shaking. She said, “You didn’t write. I thought you were dead.” He looked at the photograph of the boy who, although the man didn’t know it then, would grow up to look like him, go to college, fall in love, fall out of love, become a famous writer. “What’s his name?” he asked. “I called him Isaac,” she said. They stood for a long time in silence as he stared at the picture. At last he managed three words: “Come with me.” The sound of children shouting rose from the street below. She squeezed her eyes shut. “Come with me,” he said, holding out his hand. Tears rolled down her face. She shook her head. “I can’t,” she said. She looked down at the floor. “Please,” she said. And so he did the hardest thing he’d ever done in his life: he picked up his hat and walked away. And if the man who had once promised that he’d never fall in love with another girl as long as he lived kept his promise, it wasn’t because he was stubborn, or even loyal. It was because he couldn’t help it. And, having already hidden for years, hiding his love for a son who didn’t even know he existed didn’t seem unthinkable. Not if it was what the only woman he would ever love needed him to do. After all, what does it mean for a man to hide one more thing when he has vanished completely? The morning of the day I was scheduled to model for the art class, I woke in a state of excitement. When I’d waited as long as I could, I took a bus across town. It took me a while to find the right building. I passed it three times before I realized that it had to be the one. It was an old warehouse with some of the windows broken. The front door was rusted and propped open with a cardboard box. For a moment, I let myself imagine that I’d been lured there to be robbed and killed. I pictured my body on the floor in a pool of blood. The sky had got dark, and it was starting to rain. I stood there, unable to go forward, unable to turn back. Finally, I heard laughter coming from inside. See, you’re being ridiculous, I thought. I reached for the handle on the door and just then it swung open. A girl wearing a sweater that was too big for her came out. She pushed up her sleeves. Her arms were thin and pale. “Do you need help?” she asked. “I’m looking for a drawing class. There was an ad in the paper. Maybe I have the wrong place—” She gestured. “Upstairs. On the second floor, first room on the right. It doesn’t start for another hour.” There was nothing more to say. There were steps and I went up them. My heart was pounding. What kind of fool was I, to think that they wouldn’t turn away when I took off my shirt and dropped my pants and stood naked before them? To think that they would observe my varicose-veined legs, my hairy, sagging knaidlach, and what—start to sketch? And yet. I didn’t turn back. I gripped the bannister and climbed the stairs. I could hear the rain on the skylight. A dirty light filtered through. At the top of the stairs there was a hallway. The room on the right was empty. There was a block covered with a length of black velvet, and a disorganized circle of folding chairs and easels. I went in and sat down to wait. After half an hour, people started to wander in. A woman showed me where to undress, a corner where a makeshift curtain had been hung. I stood there and she pulled it around me. A minute passed, and then I removed my shoes. I lined them up neatly. I took off my socks and put them into the shoes. I unbuttoned my shirt and took that off; there was a hanger, so I hung it. I heard chairs scraping and then laughter. Suddenly I didn’t care about being seen. I would have liked to grab my shoes and slip out of the room, down the stairs, and away from there. And yet. I unzipped my pants. Then it occurred to me: What, exactly, did “nude” mean? Did they really mean no underwear? I deliberated. I reached for the ad in the pocket of my pants. “nude model,” it said. Don’t be an idiot, I told myself. These aren’t amateurs. My underwear was down around my knees when the woman’s footsteps returned. “Are you all right in there?” “Fine, fine. I’ll be out in a moment.” I looked down. There was a tiny smear. My bowels. They never cease to appall me. I stepped out of my underwear and crumpled it into a ball. I stood without moving. I was starting to get cold. I thought, So this is how death takes you. Naked in an abandoned warehouse. Tomorrow Bruno would come downstairs and knock on my door and there would be no answer. Forgive me, Bruno. I would have liked to say goodbye. I’m sorry to have disappointed you with so few pages. Then I thought, My book. Who would find it? And then and there I realized that, even though I thought I’d been writing it for myself, the truth was that I wanted someone to read it. I pulled back the curtain and stepped forward. Squinting in the light, I stood before them. There were maybe twelve students, sitting in chairs holding their drawing pads. The girl in the big sweater was there. The woman who’d shown me where to undress pointed to the box draped in velvet. “Stand here. Strike a pose that feels comfortable.” I didn’t know which way to turn. Someone was going to have to face my rectal side no matter which way you cut it. I let my arms hang at my sides and focussed on a spot on the floor. They lifted their pencils. Nothing happened. I felt the plush cloth under the soles of my feet, the hairs rising on my arms, my fingers like ten small weights pulling downward. I felt my body waking under twelve pairs of eyes. I lifted my head. “Try to keep still,” the woman said. I stared at a crack in the concrete floor. I could hear their pencils moving across the pages. I wanted to smile. Already my body was starting to rebel, the knees beginning to shake and the back muscles straining, but I didn’t care. If need be, I would have stood there all day. Fifteen, twenty minutes passed. Then the woman said, “Why don’t we take a quick break and then we’ll start again with a different pose.” I sat. I stood. I rotated. Pages turned. I cycled from feeling to numbness to feeling to numbness. My eyes watered with pain. I recited the aleph-bet twenty-three times. Somehow I got back into my clothes. I couldn’t find my underwear and was too tired to look. I made it down the stairs, clutching the bannister. The woman came down after me. She said, “Wait, you forgot the fifteen dollars.” I took it, and when I went to put it into my pocket I felt the ball of underwear there. “Thank you.” I meant that. I was exhausted. But happy. I want to say somewhere: I’ve tried to be forgiving. And yet. There were times in my life, whole years, when anger got the better of me. Ugliness turned me inside out. There was a certain satisfaction in bitterness. I courted it. I scowled at the world. And the world scowled back. I slammed the door in people’s faces. I farted where I wanted to fart. I accused cashiers of cheating me out of a penny while holding the penny in my hand. And then one day I realized that I was on my way to being the sort of schmuck who poisons pigeons. People crossed the street to avoid me. I was a human cancer. And to be honest: I wasn’t really angry. Not anymore. I had left my anger somewhere long ago. Put it down on a park bench and walked away. And yet. It had been so long, I didn’t know any other way of being. One day I woke up and said to myself, “It’s not too late.” The first days were strange. I had to practice smiling in front of the mirror. But. It came back to me. It was as if a weight had been lifted. I let go, and something let go of me. A couple of months later, I found Bruno. When I got home from the art class, there was a note from Bruno on my door. It said, “ware are you?” I was too tired to climb the stairs to tell him. I fell into bed still wearing my clothes. It was past midnight when the telephone rang. Bruno, no doubt. I would have ignored it if I hadn’t been afraid he’d call the police. Why couldn’t he just tap on the radiator with his walking stick the way he usually did? (Three taps means “Are you alive?” Two means “Yes,” one “No.”) I threw off the sheets and stumbled across the floor, banging into a table leg. “O.K., O.K.,” I said, picking up the receiver. “No need to wake the whole building.” There was silence on the other end. I said, “Bruno?” “Is this Leo Gursky?” The man told me that he’d locked himself out of his house. He’d called information for the number of a locksmith. I said I was retired. The man seemed unable to believe his bad luck. He’d already called three other people, and no one had answered. “It’s pouring out here,” he said. “Couldn’t you stay somewhere else for the night? In the morning it’ll be easy to find a locksmith. They’re a dime a dozen.” “No,” he said. “All right, I mean, if it’s too much . . .” He paused, waiting for me to speak up. I didn’t. “O.K., then.” I could hear the disappointment in his voice. “Sorry to have disturbed you.” And yet. He didn’t hang up and neither did I. I was filled with guilt. I thought, What do I need with sleep? There will be time. Tomorrow. Or the next day. Six feet under. “O.K., O.K.,” I said, even though I didn’t want to say it. I’d have to dig up my tools. I might as well be looking for a needle in a haystack or a Jew in Poland. He gave me an address all the way uptown. Only after I hung up did I remember that I could wait forever before a bus came at that hour. I had a card in the kitchen drawer for Goldstar Car Service, not that I’d ever called it. But. You never know. I ordered a car and started digging through the hall closet for my toolbox. I was still looking when the buzzer rang. When your pants are down around your ankles, that’s when everyone arrives. “I’ll be down in a minute,” I shouted into the speaker, and when I turned around the toolbox was there, right under my nose. I grabbed my raincoat off the floor, smoothed down my hair in the mirror, and went out. A black limousine idled in the street, rain falling in the headlights. Other than that, there were only a few empty cars parked along the curb. I was about to go back into the building, but the limousine driver rolled down the window and called my name. He wore a purple turban. I walked up to the window. “There must be a mistake,” I said. “I ordered a car.” “O.K.,” he said. “But this is a limousine,” I pointed out. “O.K.,” he repeated, motioning me in. “I can’t pay extra.” The turban bobbed. He said, “Get in before you get soaking.” I ducked inside. It was bigger than I’d imagined. The soft music coming from up front and the gentle rhythm of the windshield wipers barely reached me. The traffic lights bled into the puddles. There was a little jar of peppermints, and I filled my pockets. When the limousine came to a stop, the driver pointed to a town house. It was beautiful, with steps up to the door and leaves carved in stone. “Seventeen dollars,” the driver said. I felt in my pocket for my wallet. No. Other pocket. My underwear, but no wallet. I must have left it at home in the rush. Then I remembered my fee from the art class. I dug past the peppermints and the underwear, and came up with it. “Sorry,” I said. “How embarrassing. All I have on me is fifteen.” I admit I was reluctant to part with those bills; hard-earned wasn’t the word for them but something else, more bittersweet. But, after a brief pause, the turban bobbed and the money was accepted. The man had been waiting under the cornice. Of course, he hadn’t expected me in a limousine, and out I’d popped like Mr. Locksmith to the Stars. I was humiliated. I wanted to explain, “Believe me, I’d never mistake myself for anyone special.” But it was pouring still, and I thought he needed me more than he needed any explanation of how I’d got there. It was a tricky lock. The man stood above me, holding my flashlight. The rain was running down the back of my neck. I felt how much depended on my unlocking that lock. I tried and failed. Tried and failed. And then, at last, my heart started to race. I turned the handle, and the door slipped open. He showed me into the living room, where I waited while he went to call me a car and change into dry clothes. I tried to protest, saying I could take the bus or hail a taxi, but he wouldn’t hear of it, what with the rain. The living room was filled with books. I’d never seen so many in one place that wasn’t a library. I, too, like to read. Once a month, I go to the local branch. For myself, I pick a novel and, for Bruno, with his cataracts, a book on tape. At first Bruno was doubtful. “What am I supposed to do with this?” he said, looking at the box set of “Anna Karenina” as if I’d handed him an enema. And yet. A day or two later I was going about my business when a voice from above bellowed, “All happy families resemble one another,” nearly giving me a conniption. After that, he listened to whatever I’d brought him at top volume and then returned it to me without comment. One afternoon, I came back from the library with “Ulysses.” For a month straight he listened. He had a habit of pressing the stop button and rewinding when he hadn’t fully grasped something. “Ineluctable modality of the visible: at least that.” Pause, rewind. “Ineluctable modality of the.” Pause, rewind. “Ineluctable modality.” Pause. “Ineluct.” When the due date approached, he wanted it renewed. By then I’d had it with his stopping and starting, so I went to the Wiz and got him a Sony Sportsman, and now he schleps it around clipped to his belt. For all I know, he just likes the sound of an Irish accent. I thought, Poor Bruno. He’s probably called the morgue to find out if anyone has brought in an old man with an index card in his wallet that says, “my name is leo gursky i have no family please call pinelawn cemetery i have a plot there in the jewish part thank you for your consideration.” Or else he thinks I’m wandering in the rain with my head full of dreams. Once Bruno said that if I bought a pigeon, by the time I was halfway down the street it would become a dove; on the bus home, a parrot; and in my apartment, the moment before I took it out of the cage, a phoenix. “That’s you,” he said, brushing some crumbs that weren’t there from the table. “No, it’s not,” I said. He shrugged and looked out the window. “Who ever heard of a phoenix?” I said. “A peacock, maybe. But a phoenix—I don’t think so.” His face was turned away, but I thought I saw his mouth twitch in a smile. Out of habit, I looked on the man’s shelves to see if there was anything by my Isaac. Sure enough, there was. And not just one book but four. I pulled one out and turned it over to look at Isaac’s photograph. We met once. He was giving a reading at the 92nd Street Y. I bought tickets four months in advance. Many times in my life I’d imagined our meeting. I as his father, he as my son. And yet. I knew that it could never happen that way. I’d accepted that the most I could hope for was a place in the audience. But during the reading something came over me. Afterward, I found myself standing in line, my hands shaking as I pressed into his the scrap of paper on which I’d written my name. He glanced at it and copied it into a book. I tried to say something, but there was no sound. He smiled and thanked me. And yet. I didn’t budge. “Is there something else?” he asked. I flapped my hands. The woman behind me gave me an impatient look and pushed forward to greet him. What could he do? Like a fool, I flapped. He signed the woman’s book. It was uncomfortable for everyone. The line had to move around me. Occasionally, he looked up at me, bewildered. Once, he smiled at me the way you smile at an idiot. But. My hands fought to tell him everything. At least as much as they could before a security guard grasped my elbow and escorted me to the door. It was winter. Fat white flakes fell under the street lamps. I waited for him to come out, but he never did. Maybe there was a back door, I don’t know. I took the bus home. That night, before I went to sleep, I opened the book, which I’d placed on my bedside table. “To Leah Gersky,” it said. I was still holding the book when the man came up behind me. “You know it?” he asked. I dropped it, and it landed with a thud, my son’s face staring up. I was suddenly tired, more tired than I’d been in years. I tried to explain. “I’m his father,” I said. Or maybe I said, “He’s my son.” Whatever it was, I got the point across, because the man looked shocked, and then he looked surprised, and then he looked like he didn’t believe me. Which was fine with me, because, after all, who did I think I was, showing up in a limousine, picking a lock, and then claiming to be the progenitor of a famous writer? I leaned over, picked the book up, and put it back on the shelf. The man kept looking at me, but just then the car honked outside, which was lucky because I’d had enough of being looked at for one day. “Well,” I said, making my way toward the front door, “I’d better be going.” The man reached for his wallet, took out a hundred-dollar bill, and handed it to me. “His father?” he asked, unbelieving. I pocketed the money and handed him a complimentary peppermint. I stuffed my feet into my wet shoes. “Not really his father,” I said. And because I didn’t know what else to say, I said, “More like his uncle.” This seemed to confuse him even more, but just in case I added, “Not exactly his uncle.” He raised his eyebrows. I picked up my toolbox and stepped out into the rain. When I got to the car, he was still standing in the doorway, looking out. To prove that I was off my rocker, I gave him the Queen’s wave. It was three in the morning when I got home. But I couldn’t sleep. I lay on my back, listening to the rain. Then I got out of bed and went to the kitchen. I keep my manuscript in a box in the oven. I took it out, set it on the kitchen table. I put the water on to boil. The rain was tapering off. A pigeon cooed on the windowsill. It puffed up its body, strutted back and forth, and took flight. Free as a bird, so to speak. I rolled a sheet of paper into my typewriter and, with two fingers, I picked out a title: “Words for Everything.” Before I could change my mind, I rolled it out, laid it on top of the stack of pages in the box, and closed the lid. I found some brown paper and wrapped it up. On the front I wrote Isaac’s address, which I knew by heart. Nothing happened. No wind to sweep everything away. No heart attack. No angel at the door. Outside, the sky lightened. I ate a Metamucil bar and gave myself a sponge bath. I dressed. I spat into my palm and tried to force my hair into submission. I sat with the brown paper package on my lap. At eight-forty-five, I put my raincoat on and tucked the package under my arm. Then I went out the door and into the morning. I don’t know what I expected, but I expected something. My fingers shook whenever I went to unlock the mailbox. I went Monday. Nothing. I went Tuesday and Wednesday. There was nothing on Thursday, either. Friday, as I sat dozing in my chair, the telephone rang. I was sure it was my son. But. It was only the teacher from the art class saying that she was looking for people for a project she was doing at a gallery, and she’d thought of me, because of my compelling presence. Naturally, I was flattered. At any other time, it would have been reason enough to splurge on spare ribs. And yet. “What kind of project?” I asked. She said that all I had to do was sit naked on a metal stool in the middle of the room, and then, if I felt like it, which she was hoping I would, dip my body into a vat of kosher cow’s blood and roll on the large white sheets of paper provided. I may be a fool but I’m not desperate. I thanked her very much for the offer, but said that I was going to have to turn it down since I was already scheduled to sit on my thumb and rotate in accordance with the movements of the earth around the sun. She was disappointed. But she seemed to understand. She said that if I wanted to see the drawings the class had done of me I could come to the show they were putting up in a month. I wrote down the date and hung up the phone. I’d been in the apartment all day, so I decided to go out for a walk. I’m an old man. But I can still get around. It started to get dark, but I persevered. I didn’t have any destination in mind. When I saw a Starbucks, I went in and bought a coffee, because I felt like a coffee, not because I wanted anyone to notice me. Normally I would have made a big production—“Give me a Grande Venti, I mean a Tall Grande, give me a Chai Super Venti Grande, or do I want a Short Frappe?”—and then, for punctuation, I would’ve had a small mishap at the milk station. Not this time. I poured the milk like a regular citizen of the world and sat down in an easy chair across from a man reading the newspaper. I wrapped my hands around the coffee. The warmth felt good. At the next table there was a girl with blue hair leaning over a notebook and chewing on a ballpoint, and at the table next to her was a little boy in a soccer uniform sitting with his mother, who told him, “The plural of ‘elf’ is ‘elves.’ ” A wave of happiness came over me. I felt giddy to be part of it all. To be drinking a cup of coffee like a normal person. I wanted to shout out, “The plural of ‘elf’ is ‘elves’! What a language! What a world!” There was a pay phone by the rest room. I felt in my pocket for a quarter and dialled Bruno’s number. It rang nine times. The girl with blue hair passed me on the way to the rest room. I smiled at her. Amazing! She smiled back. On the tenth ring he picked up. “Bruno?” “Yes?” “Isn’t it good to be alive?” “No, thank you, I don’t want to buy anything.” “I’m not trying to sell you anything! It’s Leo. Listen. I was sitting here drinking a coffee and suddenly it hit me.” “Who hit you?” “Ach, listen! It hit me how good it is to be alive. Alive! And I wanted to tell you. Do you understand what I’m saying? I’m saying life is a thing of beauty, Bruno. A thing of beauty and a joy forever.” There was a pause. “Sure, whatever you say, Leo. Life is a beauty.” “And a joy forever,” I said. “All right,” Bruno said. “And a joy.” I waited. “Forever.” I was about to hang up when Bruno said, “Leo?” “Yes?” “Did you mean human life?” I worked on my coffee for half an hour, making the most of it. The girl closed her notebook and got up to leave. The man neared the end of his newspaper. I read the headlines. I was a small part of something larger than myself. Yes, human life. Human! Life! Then the man turned the page and my heart stopped. It was a picture of Isaac. I collect all his clippings, and I thought I’d seen every picture of him. I’ve studied them all a thousand times. And yet. This one was new to me. He was standing in front of a window, his chin down, head tilted slightly to the side. He might have been thinking. But his eyes were looking up, as if someone had called his name right before the shutter clicked. I wanted to call out to him. It was only a newspaper, but I wanted to holler it at the top of my lungs. “Isaac! Here I am! Can you hear me, my little Isaac?” I wanted him to turn his eyes to me just as he had to whoever had shaken him from his thoughts. But. He couldn’t. The headline said: “isaac moritz, novelist, dead at 60.” Hours passed. Finally a Starbucks employee with a ring in his eyebrow came up to me. “We’re closing,” he said. I looked around. It was true. Everyone was gone. A girl with painted nails was dragging a broom across the floor. I got up. Or. I tried to get up but my legs wanted nothing to do with me. The Starbucks employee looked at me as if I were a cockroach in the brownie mix. The paper cup I held was crushed to a damp pulp in my palm. I handed it to him and started to make my way across the floor. Then I remembered the newspaper. The employee had already thrown it into the trash bin he was rolling across the floor. I fished it out while he looked on. I don’t know how I got home. Bruno must have heard me unlock the door, because a minute later he came downstairs and knocked. I didn’t answer. I was sitting in the dark in the chair by the window. He kept knocking. Finally, I heard him go back upstairs. An hour or more went by, and then I heard him on the stairs again. He slid a piece of paper under the door. It said, “life is butiful.” I pushed it back out. He pushed it back in. I pushed it out, he pushed it in. Out, in, out, in. I stared at it. “life is butiful.” I thought, Perhaps it is. Perhaps that is the word for life. I heard Bruno breathing on the other side of the door. I found a pencil. I scrawled, “and a joke forever.” I pushed it back under the door. A pause while he read it. Then, satisfied, he made his way up the stairs. It’s possible I cried. What’s the difference. Then I picked up the newspaper, cut out the photograph of Isaac, and put it in my wallet, in the plastic part made for a photo. I opened and closed the Velcro a few times to look at his face. Then I noticed that, underneath where I had cut out the picture, the paper said, “A memorial service will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. at Central Synagogue.” I took out the wrinkled schmatte I call a suit. I sat at the kitchen table and made a single rip in the collar. I would have liked to shred the whole thing. But. I restrained myself. Fishl the tzaddik who might have been an idiot once said, A single rip is harder to bear than a hundred rips. I bathed myself. I dressed, and brought the vodka down off the shelf. I took a drink, wiping my mouth with the back of my hand, repeating the gesture that had been made a hundred times by my father and his father and his father’s father, eyes half closed as the sharpness of alcohol replaced the sharpness of grief. I woke up on the floor to the sound of pigeons ruffling their feathers on the windowsill. When I looked at the clock, it was already quarter past ten. I like to think that the world wasn’t ready for me, but maybe the truth is that I wasn’t ready for the world. I’ve always arrived too late for my life. I ran to the bus stop. I use “ran” as a shorthand for hobbled, did a little skip, scampered, stopped and panted, then hobbled again. Like so, I made my way. I caught the bus uptown. I use “caught” here equally metaphorically, because the bus was moving at a snail’s pace and you can’t catch something that lacks all momentum. We sat in traffic. “Doesn’t this thing go any faster?” I said loudly. The woman next to me got up and moved to another seat. By the time I got to the shul the service was already over, but the place was still crowded with people. A man in a yellow bow tie and a white suit, what was left of his hair lacquered across his scalp, said, “Of course we knew, but when it finally happened none of us were ready,” to which a woman standing next to him replied, “Who can be ready?” I stood alone by a large potted plant. My palms were damp. I felt myself getting dizzy. Perhaps it had been a mistake to come. Out of the corner of my eye I saw Bernard, Isaac’s half brother. A huge oaf, the spitting image of his father, may his memory be a blessing—yes, even his. He’s been in the ground three years. I consider it a small victory that he kicked the bucket before me. And yet. When I remember, I light a yahrzeit candle for him. If not me, who? She died two years earlier. I saw her one more time, at the very end. There was a nurse at the hospital, a young girl, and I told her . . . not the truth but a story not unlike the truth. This nurse let me come in one night after hours, when there was no chance of my running into anyone. She was hooked to life support, tubes up her nose, one foot in the other world. She was tiny and wrinkled and deaf as a doorknob. And yet. I told her jokes. I was a regular Jackie Mason. I tried to keep things light. I said, “Would you believe, this thing here where your arm bends, this they call an elbow.” Many things I did not say. Example. “I waited so long.” Other example. “And were you happy? With that nebbish, that clod, that numbskull, that schlemiel you call a husband?” The truth was I’d given up waiting long before. The moment had passed; the door between the lives we could have led and the lives we came to call our own had shut. “Are you all right? You’re looking pale.” It was the man in the yellow bow tie. I tried to steady myself against the potted plant. “Fine, fine,” I said. “How did you know him?” he asked suspiciously. “We were . . . related,” I said. “Family! So sorry, forgive me. I thought I’d met all the mishpocheh!” The way he pronounced it was “mishpoky.” “Of course, I should have guessed.” He looked me up and down, running a palm over his hair to make sure that it was securely positioned. “I was his editor,” he said. “I thought you were one of the fans.” He gestured toward the thinning crowd. “Which side, then?” A wave of nausea came over me, and I tried to focus on the man’s bow tie while the room around me swayed. “Both,” I said. “Both,” he repeated, incredulous. A moment later, I was standing face to face with Bernard. “Look what I rustled up,” the man with the bow tie said. “Says he’s mishpoky.” Bernard smiled politely as he eyed the rip in my collar. “Forgive me,” he said. “I don’t remember you. Have we met?” I glanced at the sign marked “Exit.” I opened my mouth. And yet. “Did you know Isaac?” my son’s brother persisted. The man in the bow tie was hanging on every word. I found it difficult to breathe. Bernard waited. “Well,” he said finally. “Thank you for coming. It’s been moving to see how many people have come out. Isaac would have been pleased.” He took my hand between his and shook it. He turned to go. “S.,” I said. I hadn’t planned on it. Bernard turned back. “Pardon?” “I come from S.,” I said. “You come from S.?” he repeated. I nodded. Something broke on his face. “She used to tell us about it,” he said. “Who’s she?” the man with the bow tie demanded. “My mother. He comes from the same village as my mother,” Bernard said. “So many stories. When we were kids. About the river where she swam.” I nodded. The water was freezing. We would undress and jump off the footbridge screaming. Our hearts would stop. For a moment, we felt as if we were drowning. When we scrambled back onto the bank, gasping for air, our legs were heavy, pain shooting up the ankles. Your mother was tall and skinny, with small, pale breasts. I would fall asleep drying in the sun, and wake to the shock of ice-cold water on my back. And her laughter. “Her father’s shoe shop,” Bernard said. “She told us all about it. The bakery she used to pass on the way to school, with the smell of fresh bread.” Except for the three weeks when we weren’t speaking to each other, hardly a day passed that we didn’t walk to school together. In the cold her wet hair would freeze into icicles. In the spring I used to pick a daisy and she would put it behind her ear. “The little pond she skated on in the winter. The wild blackberries behind her father’s shed. The field where she used to play.” “Yes,” I said. “The field.” Fifteen minutes later, I was sandwiched between Isaac’s editor and a young woman in the back of a stretch limousine. You would think I was making a habit of it. We were going to Bernard’s house for a small gathering of family and friends. Bernard lived somewhere on Long Island, in a house surrounded by trees. I’d never seen such beautiful trees, great canopies of shadow and light. Inside the house, people stood around a table piled with bagels, lox, and whitefish and talked about Isaac. I knew I didn’t belong there. I felt like a fool and an impostor. I stood by the window, making myself invisible. I hadn’t thought it would be so painful. To hear people talk about the son I could only imagine as if he were as familiar to them as a garden potato was almost too much to bear. So I slipped away and wandered through the rooms of the house. I thought, My son walked on this carpet. I came to a guest bedroom. I thought, From time to time, he slept in this bed. This very bed! His head on these pillows. I lay down—I was tired, I couldn’t help myself. The pillow sank under my cheek. And as he lay here, I thought, he looked out this very window, at that very tree. “You’re such a dreamer,” Bruno says, and maybe I am. Maybe I was also dreaming this. In a moment the doorbell would ring, I’d open my eyes, and Bruno would be standing there asking if I had a roll of toilet paper. I must have fallen asleep, because the next thing I knew Bernard was standing above me. “Sorry! I didn’t realize anyone was in here. Are you sick?” I sprang up. If the word “spring” can be used in reference to my movements at all, this was the moment. And that’s when I saw it. It was on a shelf right behind his shoulder. In a silver picture frame. Bernard turned. “Oh, that,” he said, taking it down off the shelf. “This is my mother when she was a girl. Did you know her then?” Let’s stand under a tree, she said. Why? Because it’s nicer. Maybe you should sit on a chair, and I’ll stand above you, like they always do with husbands and wives. That’s stupid. Why? Because we’re not married. Should we hold hands? We can’t. Why not? Because people will know. Know what? About us. So what if they know? It’s better when it’s a secret. Why? So no one can take it from us. “I found it in her things after she died,” Bernard said. “It’s a beautiful photograph, isn’t it? She didn’t have much from over there. A couple of photos of her parents and her sisters, that’s all. Of course, she had no idea she would never see them again, so she didn’t bring much. But I never saw this one. Don’t know who he is. Friend of hers, I guess. It was in an envelope with some papers in Yiddish.” If I had a camera, I said, I’d take a picture of you every day. That way I’d remember how you looked every single day of your life. I look the same. No, you don’t. You’re changing all the time. Every day a tiny bit. If I could, I’d keep a record of it all. If you’re so smart, how did I change today? You got a fraction of a millimeter taller, for one thing. Your hair grew a fraction of a millimeter longer. And your breasts grew a fraction of a— They did not! Yes, they did. What else, you big pig? You got a little happier and also a little sadder. How do you know? Think about it. Have you ever been happier than right now? I guess not. And have you ever been sadder than right now? No. It isn’t like that for everyone. Some people just get happier and happier. And some people, like Beyla Asch, get sadder and sadder. What about you? Are you the happiest and saddest right now that you’ve ever been? Of course I am. Why? Because nothing makes me happier and nothing makes me sadder than you. We stood together looking at the photograph. Bernard patted my back. “I’d love to stay here reminiscing,” he said, “but I really should go. All those people out there.” He gestured. “Let me know if you need anything.” He closed the door behind him, and then, God help me, I took the photograph and shoved it in my pants. Down the stairs I went, and out the door. In the driveway, I knocked on the window of one of the limousines. The driver roused himself from sleep. “I’m ready to go back now,” I said. To my surprise, he got out, opened the door, and helped me in. When I got home, I thought I’d been robbed. The furniture was overturned, and the floor was dusted with white powder. I grabbed the baseball bat I keep in the umbrella stand and followed the trail of footsteps to the kitchen. Every surface was covered with pots and pans and dirty bowls. It seemed that whoever had broken in to rob me had taken his time and made himself a meal. On the kitchen table, next to my typewriter, was a large cake, sunk in the middle. Standing, nonetheless. It was frosted with yellow icing, and across the top, in sloppy pink letters, it read “look who baked a cake.” On the other side of my typewriter was a note: “waited all day.” I couldn’t help it, I smiled. I put the baseball bat away, picked up the pots and pans, took out the picture, breathed on the glass, rubbed it with my shirt, and set it down on my night table. It had been a long time since anyone had given me a gift. A feeling of happiness nudged my heart. That I could wake up each morning and warm my hands on a hot cup of tea. That I could watch the pigeons fly. That at the end of my life Bruno had not forgotten me. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Delicate Wives	Veronica Horst was stung by a bee, and it should have produced no more than a minute of annoyance and pain, but she, in the apparent bloom of health at the age of twenty-nine, turned out to be susceptible to anaphylactic shock, and nearly died. Fortunately, her husband, Gregor, was with her, and threw her fainting body, all but blood-pressureless, into their car and speeded careening through the heart of town to the hospital, where she was saved. When Les Miller heard about the event, from his wife, Lisa, who was breathlessly fresh from a session of gossip and women’s tennis, he was stung by jealousy: he and Veronica had had an affair the previous summer, and by the rights of love he should have been the one to be with her and to save her heroically. Gregor even had the presence of mind, afterward, to go around to the local police and explain why he had been speeding and careening through stop signs. “It seems incredible,” Lisa innocently told her husband, “that here she’s nearly thirty and apparently has never been stung before, so nobody knew she would react this way. As a child I was always getting stung, weren’t you?” “I think Veronica had a city upbringing,” he said. “Still,” Lisa said, hesitant in the face of his ready assertion, “that’s no guarantee. There are parks.” Les, picturing Veronica in her house, in her bed, where an elongated pink-tinged pallor had been revealed to him, like a Modigliani or a Fragonard, nestled in rumpled fabric, said, “She’s a pretty indoor kind of person.” Lisa was not. Tennis, golf, hiking, and skiing kept her freckled the year round. Even her delft-blue irises were dotted, if you looked, with tan specks of melanin. She insisted, “Well, she nearly died,” as if Les had been wandering from the point. His mind had been exploring the abysmal possibility of Veronica’s beauty and high spirits being removed from the world by a chemical mischance. In her moment of need, had her care passed to her lover the previous summer, he might have proved less effective than Gregor, who was small and dark and spoke English if not with an accent with a studied precision, as if locking the sense of his words into an iron case. She found him repellent, Veronica had confessed—his fussiness, his dictatorial streak, the cold assertiveness in his touch—but Les, by breaking off their affair at the end of the summer, had possibly saved her life. In Gregor’s shoes he might have panicked, doubted what was happening, and fatally failed to act. As it was, he saw gallingly, the incident would be rolled into the Horst family annals, as a pivotal and eternally ramifying moment—the time Mommy (and, as she would become, Grammy) was stung by a bee, and funny foreign-born Grampa resourcefully saved her. Les was so jealous that he nearly bent over as if with a stomach cramp. Had he, sweet dreamy Les, been there, instead of scowling, practical-minded Gregor, her emergency would have acquired and forever retained a different poetry, more flattering to her, more congruent with a doomed summer love. For what was more majestically intimate even than sex but death? He imagined her motionless profile, gray with blood loss, cradled in his arms. Veronica had a favorite summer dress, with a wide oval neck and half-length sleeves, of orange, orange distributed with a tie-dyed unevenness. It was not a color most women would wear, but it brought out the reckless gleam in her long straight hair and the green of her eyes. Remembering their affair, Les seemed to squint through a wash of this color, though it was no longer summer but September when they parted, the grass in the fields going to seed and the air noisy with cicadas. Veronica’s eyes watered, her lower lip trembled as she listened. He explained that he just couldn’t face leaving Lisa and the kids, who were still almost babies, and unless he could they should break it off while it was still secret, before things got messy, and all their lives lay scattered and ruined. Through her tears Veronica appraised him and determined that indeed he did not love her enough to rescue her from Gregor. He was not free enough, was how he preferred to phrase it. They wept together—his tears made a gleam on the skin of her shoulder within the wide oval of her neckline—and agreed that no one but them would ever know. And yet, through the fall and winter and into the next summer, he felt cheated by this secrecy; their affair had been something wonderful he wanted known. He tried to rekindle her attention. She ignored his longing looks, and rebuked his confused attempts to single her out in a crowd. Her green eyes glared, under the frown of her long reddish eyebrows. “Les dear,” she said to him once when he cornered her late at a party, “did you ever hear the expression ‘Shit or get off the pot’?” “Well, I have now,” he said, shocked and offended. Lisa would never have said such a thing, any more than she would have worn splashy tie-dyed orange. His concealed affair with Veronica burned within him like an untreated infection, and as the years went by it seemed that Veronica, too, suffered from it; she seemed never to have quite recovered from the bee sting. Weight loss, making her look gaunt and stringy, alternated with periods of puffiness and overweight. There were trips to the local hospital, about which Gregor was adamantly mysterious, and spells when Veronica was hidden within her house, suffering from complaints that her husband, showing up at parties by himself, refused to name. Les, in his inert, romantic way, imagined her, having in a fit of treacherous weakness confessed their affair to Gregor, being held captive by him. Or else regret over losing Les was gnawing at her delicate constitution. Her beauty did not greatly suffer from her frailty, but gained a new dimension from it, a ghostly glow, a poignance. After years of sunbathing—all women did it back then—Veronica developed photosensitivity, and stayed pale all summer. Her teeth, as her thirties wore on, gave her trouble, and the orthodontics and periodontics specialists she regularly consulted had their offices in the nearby middle-sized city, in a tall building across from the one in which Les worked as an investment counsellor. Once, he glimpsed her from his window as she reported, preoccupied and solemn in a dark, wide-skirted cloth coat, for treatment across the street. After that, he kept looking out his window for her, mourning the decade they had let slip by while married to other people. Lisa’s outdoor bounce and freckled good nature had become somewhat butch; her hair, like her mother’s, turned gray early. Gregor was rumored to be discontented and having affairs. Les imagined these betrayals as wounds Veronica was enduring, within the silent prison of her marriage. He still saw her at parties, but across the room, and, when he did maneuver close to her, she had little to say. During their affair they had shared, along with sex, concerns about their children, and memories of their parents and upbringings. This sort of innocent exposure of another, eagerly apprehended life figures among the things lovers lose, a flow of blameless confidences that, halted, builds up a pressure. So when he spotted Veronica leaving the dentists’ building, unmistakably her although he was ten stories high and she was bundled against the winter winds, he left his office without bothering with a topcoat and ambushed her on the sidewalk a half block away. “Lester! What on earth?” She put her mittened hands on her hips to mime exasperation. Christmas decorations were still in some shop windows, gathering dust, and tinsel rain from trashed evergreens glittered in the gutters. “Let’s have lunch,” he begged. “Or is your mouth too full of Novocain?” “He didn’t use Novocain today,” she primly told him. “It was just the fitting of a crown, with temporary cement.” The detail thrilled him. In the warmth of a booth in his favorite weekday lunch place, he marvelled at her presence across the table. She had reluctantly removed her dark wool overcoat, revealing a red cardigan and a necklace of pink costume pearls. “So how have you been these many years?” he asked. “Why are we doing this?” she asked. “Don’t the people in here all know you?” They had arrived early, but the place was filling up, with noise and little sharp drafts as the door opened and closed. “They do and they don’t,” he said, “but what the hell, what’s to be afraid of? You could be a client. You could be an old friend. Which you are. How’s your health?” “Fine,” she said, which he knew to be a lie. But he went on, “And your children? I miss hearing about them—there was the rough-and-tumble one, and the sensitive shy one, who you couldn’t stand some days.” “That was ages ago,” Veronica said. “I can stand Janet now. She and her brother are both at boarding school.” “Remember how we used to have to work around them? Remember the time you sent Harry off to school even though he had a fever, because you and I had a date set up?” “I’d forgotten that. I’d prefer not to be reminded; it makes me ashamed now. We were foolish and heedless, and you were right to break it off. It’s taken a while for me to understand that, but I do.” “Well, I don’t. I was crazy to give you up. I exaggerated my own importance. Kids—mine are teen-agers now, too, and away at school. I look at them and wonder if they ever gave a damn.” “Of course they did, Lester.” She cast her eyes down, toward the cup of hot tea she had ordered, though he had pressed her to have, like him, a real drink. “You were right: don’t make me say it again.” “Yeah, but, right now, it feels desperately wrong.” “If you flirt with me, I’ll have to leave.” This threat provoked a long chain of thought in Veronica that led to her saying solemnly, “Gregor and I are getting a divorce.” “Oh, no!” Les felt as if the air had thickened, pressing like pillows in his face. “Why?” She shrugged, and grew very still over her cup of tea, like a card player guarding her hand. “He says I can’t keep up with him anymore.” “Really? What a selfish, narcissistic creep! Remember how you used to complain about his icy touch?” She repeated the almost imperceptible shrug. “He’s a typical man. More honest than most.” Was this a dig at him? Les wondered. In their game of reopened possibilities, he didn’t want to overplay his own hand. Rather than say nothing, he said, “With winter here, you don’t seem as pale as in summer. How are you doing with sunlight?” “Since you ask, it makes me ache. I have lupus, they tell me. A mild form, whatever that means.” Her grimace he took to be sarcastic. “Well,” Les said, “that’s nice it’s mild. You still look great to me.” The waitress came back, and they hastily ordered, and passed the rest of the lunch uncomfortably, running out of the small talk, the innocent sharing, that for so long he had felt deprived of. The small talk had come, however, in bed, in the languid aftermath of erotic occasions. Veronica was less apt now, Les sensed, to be languid; she carried her wide-hipped, rangy body warily, as if it might detonate. There was something incandescent about her, like a filament forced full of current. Before the waitress could offer them dessert, she reached for her coat and told Les, “Now, don’t tell Lisa any of this. Some of it’s still secret.” He protested, “I never tell her anything.” But he did tell her, eventually, that perhaps the time had come for them to divorce. His reacquaintance with Veronica—the older, more fragile, and needy Veronica—filled him night and day with her image. In her pallor she had become the entryway to a kind of hospital radiance, a blur of healing, of old wounds repaired. Breaking off their affair had never sat right with him; now he would take care of her for the rest of her life. He saw himself bringing her broth in bed, driving her to tense appointments, becoming almost a doctor himself. The affair was not exactly resumed; their contacts were confined to her dental appointments, since risking anything more might imperil her legal status as a wronged wife. In these lunches and stray drinks she more and more came to resemble the mistress he remembered: carefree in manner, lively and light-voiced in her conversation, with an edge that somehow cut through to his real self, the heroic, debonair self his dull and dutiful life concealed. “But why?” Lisa asked, of the divorce he vaguely threatened. He could not confess Veronica’s revival in his life, for that would entail confession of the earlier liaison. “Oh,” he said, “I think we’ve pretty much done our work as a couple. I can’t keep up with you, frankly. All your sports. You’ve become self-sufficient, maybe you always were. Think about it. Please. I’m not saying we should start with the lawyers tomorrow.” She was not fooled. Her blue eyes, their gold freckles magnified by small shells of tears, stared. “Does this have anything to do with Veronica and Gregor splitting up?” “No, of course not, how could it? But they are showing how to do it—sensibly, with mutual respect and affection.” “I don’t know about affection. People say it’s shocking of him to leave her, when she’s so sickly.” “Is she sickly?” He had thought that the bee sting had opened only to his eyes the extent of her vulnerability, her lovely old-fashioned faintingness. “Oh, I think so,” Lisa said, “though she puts up a good show. Veronica always did.” “See, that’s it, show. That’s how you think. That’s what we’ve become, a show. All our married life, we’ve been a show.” “I never felt that. I must say, Les, this is all news to me. I’ll need time.” “Of course, dear.” There was no hurry; the Horsts were hitting snags, about money. The radiant portal would keep. And Lisa, that good sport, did seem to adjust, day by day, as the house filled up with the dusty feeling of impending abandonment. The children, peeking in on vacations from school, smelled the difference and took refuge in skiing trips to Utah or rock-climbing expeditions to Vermont. Lisa, on the contrary, seemed to become less and less active; returning from work, Les would find her at home, listless, and when he asked about her day, she would reply, “I don’t know where the time went. I didn’t do anything, even housework. I have no energy.” One drizzly weekend in early spring, instead of going off to her usual Sunday-morning foursome in the indoor tennis facility, she cancelled and called Les into their bedroom. He had been sleeping in the guest room. “Don’t worry, I’m not seducing you,” Lisa said, lowering her nightie to expose her breasts, and lying back on the bed with not desire but a kind of laughing fear in her face. “Feel here.” Her pale fingers led his to the underside of her left breast. Instinctively, he pulled his hand back, and she blushed at this rejection and said, “Come on. I can’t ask a child to do it, or a friend. You’re all I’ve got. Tell me if you feel anything.” Years of faithful exercise and wearing a jogging bra had kept her body tone firm. Her nipples, the color of watered wine, were erect with their unceremonious exposure to air. “Not just under the skin,” she coached him. “Down deeper. Inside.” He didn’t know what he felt, in that dark knit of vein and gland. “A lump,” she prompted further. “I felt it in the shower ten days ago and kept hoping it was my imagination.” “I . . . I don’t know. There’s a . . . an inconsistency, but it might be just a naturally dense place.” She put her hand on his and pressed his fingertips deeper. “There. Feel it?” “Sort of. Does it hurt?” “I’m not sure it’s supposed to. Do the other in the same place. Is it different, or the same?” He puzzled, shutting his eyes to envision the interior nub, to search out the dark invader. “Not the same, I think. I don’t know; I can’t tell, honey. You should get to a doctor.” “I’m scared to,” Lisa confessed, and the blue of her eyes showed it, anxious and bright amid her fading freckles. Les hung there, one hand still cupping her healthy right breast. It was soft, warm, and heavy. This was the bee sting, the intimacy he had coveted, legitimately his at last; he felt befouled by things of the body and wanted merely to turn away, but knew he could not. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Eminent Domain	What caught Paolo’s attention was the smile, teeth extravagantly white and large, orthodontically flawless. Expensive maintenance in the mouth of a homeless girl. Around the smile was a pale, animated face, and around that a corona of wild purple hair. The owner of this gleeful mouth was drunk, her flame of a head swaying on the thin stick of her body, lit at nine in the morning on the front stoop of a condemned Baptist church. This neighborhood was called “transitional.” The church was being destroyed to accommodate a new freeway, and a ramp jutted raggedly into the sky above it, a road to nowhere: eminent domain. Paolo drove past it on his way to the theatre for rehearsals. Every day, the girl balanced on the church steps, surrounded by a shifting group of men. Always the only female, and, as a result, the center of a kind of stunned, stoned, possessive attention. The group surveyed the street, drinking from brown-paper bags, leaning on bundles, panhandling with plastic cups, laughing too loudly, ready to attack anyone who made the mistake of approaching their girl. Some wore hospital wristbands. They adopted dogs and took better care of them than they did of themselves. They, too, were strays—unclaimed, uncollared, trotting purposefully through parking lots or along sidewalks, jauntily dodging danger, their only objective the next meal or drink and a place to lie down. When inspired, the group catcalled in the direction of traffic—provoked by an angry driver, a hand gesture or a shout, the look of fear or disgust on an elderly face, or the mere fact of a particularly ostentatious vehicle, like a Humvee or a Bentley. Other times, they collected aluminum cans in shopping carts. You’d see them paired off on recycling day, scrounging through the green bins left curbside. They were everywhere, like squirrels, Paolo thought, with routines, like mailmen. You could grow so accustomed to their presence that you stopped seeing them. But Paolo felt he knew the girl. Her animation most likely had to do with being the only female and therefore the source of a kinetic sexual friction, not only among the men in her circle but among the men in the cars passing, and the ones wearing hard hats and safety vests, operating the raucous city equipment, erecting the freeway. She presided in the manner of a stripper before a paying audience. Still, Paolo stared with what he knew to be special interest, drawn by something about her that he alone perceived. Then one day he knew what it was. He squealed to a halt in traffic. The street people looked over at the source of the sound with the lazy blinking regard of lizards. And there, showcased among them, was Bobby Gunn’s daughter. Sophie Gunn. A Houston River Oaks Country Club girl. Débutante, she should be, by now. Through the steamy window of his convertible Paolo took her in, the furthest thing from a débutante he could imagine, and she gazed upon him with a taunting expression that said she was high, protected, superior. Her glance said, You fear me. You may even envy me. Then her smile faltered. She stepped backward. Now she understood that she knew him—that he had ties to her past, that he might leap from his car and reveal her origins, reveal to her companions the fact that she was merely slumming, while they had no other options. Was that it—simply threat, exposure both here and to her parents? She and Paolo held the gaze, across traffic, through the windshield, as if time had gelled. Then it jerked forward; horns blared all around him. Houston drivers were patient, to a point—their Southern manners, maybe the languor that humidity encouraged—and then they became just as surly as their counterparts in New York. He hadn’t been a driver in New York, and his skills were still rudimentary. He sometimes forgot that he was in charge of the car and drifted, foot ambivalent on the pedals. He lurched away now, suspecting that Sophie Gunn, having been recognized, wouldn’t hold court on the steps tomorrow. Paolo was having a sort of secret affair with a patron of the arts who was forty-four, ten years older than him. “Sort of,” because it seemed that most people knew about it. Her husband, a heart surgeon, had been charged in a recent scandal at the hospital—a dull scandal having to do with billing, rather than botched surgery or drug trafficking—the details of which he’d kept from his wife. (It was the intern mistress, his new confidante, who would have to appear in court, and in the pages of the Chronicle, implicated.) Mary Annie was the name of the surgeon’s wife, who had now filed for divorce. She referred to herself as “well preserved,” which meant that she had streaked-blond hair and tennis-ball arm muscles, minimal wrinkles, and a snappy fashion sense. She’d grown up on a ranch in West Texas, where her larger-than-life father had pampered her in a peculiar way. In addition to the typical female functions, she had been expected to cultivate another set of assets: a bawdy, tolerant sense of humor, a whiskey voice, the ability to give the distinct and disarming impression that she knew your weaknesses and forgave you for them in advance. Intelligent by nature, she’d been a horse handler, a tea drinker, a student of nursing, and was now curious about the creative arts. But she was cautious in love, having been wounded by her husband, that coward, that man whom her father had enthusiastically offered to come shoot dead. Texans—they were a breed apart. Paolo had been seated near Mary Annie at one of what he’d dubbed the Rubber Chicken Events. They came with the visiting-artist territory—fund-raising dinners with tables full of benefactors there to meet the talent. How many had he attended in his two years as actor-in-residence? For these affairs, he fortified himself with Scotch. Mary Annie had been sitting across from Paolo; when he was asked how he prepared for his roles as, well, such lowlifes (his calling was malfeasance, Iago the role he was rehearsing now), she had smiled into her plate. “Assholes are easy,” he’d responded. The dowagers and their husbands liked to be scandalized—it was part of what they bought, for a thousand dollars a plate. But the flinch in Mary Annie’s face brought Paolo up short; he hadn’t truly meant to offend. “Allow me,” he said to her afterward, on the edge of the club portico, where they were waiting for their cars. Gallantly, he held his umbrella over her. She forgave him gracefully, leaning in too close, a woman accustomed to a man’s attention, and in need of it. Later, slowly, they’d become true intimates—not when she’d undressed for him, for the first time, in a hotel room, or when they’d kissed achingly in her driveway, but when, on the telephone this month, she’d confessed that she was puzzling over the problem of her daughter’s pregnancy. She didn’t want to be called Granny or Nana or any other fossilizing term of endearment. Then Paolo knew he’d genuinely been let in. On the phone with Mary Annie, Paolo did not mention the girl on the church steps. Already he’d decided. He might have first met Sophie Gunn at Mary Annie’s house. At a function there—the girl brought along in a cotillion dance dress with a corsage, or perhaps the reluctant teen in an outfit of chains and denim. Whatever she’d been then, she had shed it now. “You could give me a ride,” Sophie had said to him there at the curb, after which she’d coughed ferociously, making a fist and hacking into it. He’d parked in front of the church and she’d stepped forward automatically, the representative of her crew, a pack of cigarettes squashed suggestively behind her metal-studded belt. He was glad to see that she hadn’t been scared away by his recognition of her the day before. It was a sunny February afternoon; he had the top down, sunglasses on. “Beg pardon?” She repeated her request, pantomiming, pointing at him, then back at herself. Knowing who she was, he should have delivered her straight to her parents’ house. But he had never seen himself as a savior. He was an observer at best, a bad influence or an attractive nuisance at worst. A stringer-along. An actor, for God’s sake—hungry for the disreputable, never denying the dark impulses. “Get in,” he told her. He took her to a Taco Cabana and bought her beans and rice and guacamole. She was a vegetarian, which made Paolo laugh. She joined him; it was as if the same silly slogans ran through their minds: Sleep in the street, don’t eat meat. Smoke pot, not pigs. She still had her wits about her. How long would they last? She knew every customer at the restaurant and greeted them all extravagantly. She was indulged—the neighborhood had not yet turned its gentrifying back on her ilk. And she had not yet acquired the look of a derelict. Her skin was intact, mostly clean, exposed with utter randomness, her clothes held on with safety pins and zippers, tiny diamond in her nostril, rings in her brow, ears, and lip, ball bearing through the tongue. She wore a rivet-studded bracelet that Paolo was alarmed to recognize as a cock ring, and combat boots, which would probably never go out of style in certain contexts. Every few days, she told Paolo, she went to a high-school friend’s house to watch television, take a shower, sit on a sofa. “And dye my hair,” she added thoughtfully. The color was eggplant, tipped in jet black. Her vanity about it interested Paolo; some product had been used to make it flare up rather than lie limp. He stared for a long time at her beautifully smooth arms until he realized that she must have shaved them, and recently, to achieve the look. He needed to know if she was eighteen yet—the wholeness of the number signified something—but she wouldn’t say. He pretended not to know instantly what that meant. Without asking, without promising, they struck a kind of bargain—the kind made between people who will eventually sleep together, whose business is mostly of the subterranean, unspoken variety—that he would not tell her parents where she was. Her father, Bobby Gunn, who had slid out of several investment and oil businesses just before they toppled, was the minorest of minor players in the latest rash of financial scandals. “Wily,” Sophie said. “Daddy,” she called him. Either it was an affectation (and it was charming) or, as a Southerner, she was unaware of the word’s perverse disharmony. “Daddy,” she said, as in “Daddy once called the police and had me arrested for pawning Mama’s jewelry.” She’d summoned the police to come get him, too; he’d beaten her when she set fire to the playroom—extinguished the blaze with the garden hose, then whipped her unrepentant grinning face with the metal nozzle. They went tit for tat in that household, apparently. All Paolo could recall was Bobby Gunn’s habit of muttering to himself. He’d tucked it away as a curiosity for future use in a character study. The under-your-breath aside, the meanness most people kept to themselves. “Fuck you,” Sophie, too, had said, sotto voce, instead of “Thank you,” as a girl her own age wearing a Taco Cabana paper hat disdainfully took her order. “I used to Magic Marker ‘I want to die’ on my arms during tests if I hadn’t studied. Bada bing—down to the counsellor’s office,” Sophie told him. She was providing him with tips for a kind of survival. She was entertaining him. She was trying to convey the personality that was uniquely her own—brattiness, joy, jokes, willfulness. The need to shock. “When I was a baby, I would bang my head on the floor until they gave me what I wanted.” Paolo noted how tidily she ate, etiquette lessons still coursing through her system like the blood of a feline, fastidious and sexy. “Didn’t you use to ride horses?” Paolo said suddenly, an image returning to him like a forgotten dream. “Yep,” she responded. Bobby Gunn’s daughter had been wearing jodhpurs when he met her. She’d stepped into a living-room party when all those present were lulled by liquor into a dreamy observation of her garments, the strange and striking uniform, part English Regency, part Vegas showgirl, the boots, the helmet, and—especially—the crop. She’d been teen-age, scornful, eyebrows arched, lips twitching as if to hold back a derisive snort. She’d had a knowingness, a skepticism—a fringe-factor affiliation that Paolo shared—remarkable enough to allow him to recognize her otherwise unrecognizable self on the steps of the torched Baptist church. Without it, he wouldn’t have been able to unearth her in that smile. He wouldn’t have found himself thinking about her in the circle of men, the liquid movement of her hips and hands. “Aren’t you supposed to be in school?” Stupid, stupid, stupid, he instantly berated himself. But she wasn’t listening. She was expanding her eyes as if to hypnotize him. She leaned across the lunch debris. “What would you pay me to suck you off?” “What?” “Not what, how much? Cuánto?” “I wouldn’t, at any price.” Paolo hated the heat that suffused his face, the repulsion that accompanied it. Hadn’t he just been considering her flesh in full possession of unclean thoughts? Her confidence wasn’t complete, he told himself; she was trying on vulgarity, rather than genuinely inhabiting it. “But I’ll lend you money.” “But I can’t pay you back, so I have to do something for it. I have to earn it.” “It can be a long-term loan. In ten years, it’ll come due.” “I’ll be dead,” she said breezily. “Daddy says that all debts are forgiven in death.” She took twenty dollars. “I won’t buy drugs,” she promised, bored, anticipating his next stupid statement. She withdrew a foil-wrapped stick of chewing gum from the pocket of her jeans and poked it into her mouth. When Paolo delivered her to a tattoo parlor a mile away, she gave him a kiss on the cheek that left a small minty tingle. He didn’t see her for a week, although he looked. Had his twenty dollars bought her oblivion? Then there she was, outside the Starbucks he sometimes frequented. He locked his convertible with his usual qualms; anyone with a knife—screwdriver, ballpoint pen, sharp fingernail—could hack through the roof. “What are you up to?” he asked nonchalantly, hugely relieved to see her. “You can’t believe how nervous people get when you walk into their place of business carrying one of these.” She brandished a red plastic gasoline container like a lunchbox. “Well, yes,” Paolo agreed. Over coffee—she ordered a large sweet beverage full of cream and caramel, a kid’s concept of coffee, consumed with a spoon—she proposed a few favors that he might perform for her. Her cohorts in the world of the disenfranchised, while often fun and generally supportive, couldn’t render all required aid. Listening, Paolo was already justifying his attraction to her. He would save her, he told himself as he nodded along. Surely he was better for her than the boys she was currently hanging around with. Boys? Men. More adept at the traditional manly functions than Paolo was. Fighters, hunters, gatherers—after a fashion. Addicts, scroungers, streetwise. Paolo wouldn’t last a day in that odd cosmos. He was a pampered dilettante, supported by the gifts of women who were bored and eager for a cause. Sophie could be his cause as he was theirs. He wasn’t so different from those do-gooders, he thought, discreetly nudging the gasoline container beneath the table. He was old enough to be her father, more or less. But only if he’d fathered her when he was in high school, he told himself. And that helped. “This is a school day, right?” she asked suddenly. “Thursday,” he said. “No, Wednesday.” She sent him into her private school to clean out her locker, abandoned several months ago but still full of stuff. “My parents are afraid to disenroll me,” Sophie explained. “It’s too hard to get back in—you sign up for this shithole, like, in utero—so instead they just put me on leave.” She pronounced the last words like a phrase in French. The woman at the attendance desk did not blanch; she sent Paolo with a box and a prissy aide, who made a point of looking away when the locker door swung open to reveal its decoration of broken mirrors and slashed photographs, everything held in place with duct tape. Paolo had the feeling that much of what he removed from the locker did not actually belong to Sophie. He was sweating by the time it was over, unnerved in a specifically immature way. This was the business of adolescence. What was he thinking? An alarm was sounding, he believed, alerting all parents and law-abiding citizens. He could hear his stereo, practically see the little car throbbing, as he hustled across the parking lot. Sophie snapped the radio off before he could complain, greeting him with “No one in that building has ever set foot in a public school.” And, anticipating his next remark, she added, “Including the janitor.” “Nuh-uh.” “Uh-huh,” she hummed confidently. Her locker made her seem more deeply disturbed than Paolo had thought. She was a liar, a thief, a beautiful, broken, fathomless girl. She had acne in her eyebrows, which were still blond. When he handed over the locker’s contents, she immediately began to separate the salable from the personal. “Tell me your name,” she said as they drove away from the scene of the crime. “Paul,” he said automatically, reverting to the lie. He was legitimately Paolo, but as a child in Milwaukee he’d adopted Paul for use in school and on the street. His mother had given him his name; from her he’d also acquired the habit of crossing his fingers, knocking on wood, making wishes, and looking for portents. On his forehead was the same worried V, entrenched between the eyes. The night his mother died, he’d seen not only a star in the smeary Houston sky but a falling one. “You’re cool, Paul,” Sophie Gunn said, thanking him. At the church steps, she took her box of goods and waved goodbye. Like a kind of church functionary, he’d fed her, he’d listened without judgment, he’d given her money. What more could he do? At home, in his guesthouse apartment, he took advantage of the rare sunny afternoon to lie outside and tan, gauging his moral temperature. Would he have attached himself to a runaway boy? To an ugly girl? What did he have in mind? Below, in the back yard of the main house, a pool shimmered. Once it had been for swimming, but not anymore. It had been altered by its current owners, Paolo’s hosts, who had filled it with concrete except for the top eighteen inches or so: a giant shallow pool that attracted clouds of mosquitoes and wandering rodents. The atmosphere was insidious, suggestive. He drank beer as the sky turned city pink. His hosts, Clem and Sheila, were also patrons of the arts; his quarters came to him free of charge. Yet there was a cost—his privacy. A steep price, actually, all things considered. But not one he’d thought much about until he had something to hide. He assessed it now as he acknowledged his desire to bring Sophie here, to give her a place to sleep for the night. His thinking took him no further than seeing her safely on his futon, beneath a spare bedsheet, wearing a pair of his soft shorts. He understood that from now on he would be the owner of a small gnawing anxiety with her name attached to it—an irritation that only her living presence would soothe. In a little while, his hosts would be home from work, standing on their deck, waving at him with drinks in their hands, the way they did every evening—beaming at their pet. It seemed wise to fill her Ritalin prescription for her, picking it up from the safety of the Walgreen’s drivethrough, his eyes skidding wildly for spies in the parking lot. Her plan charged her twenty dollars a month for her supply. It kept her from losing focus, she told him. It interacted well with cigarettes, marijuana, alcohol. Not so well with cocaine or Ecstasy. He took this information in without expression. “And I can always sell a few of them,” she added. “Some people think it’s a trip.” On a weekly basis he delivered her to therapy, in a building without windows. The office was for the indigent; there wasn’t even a parking lot beside it, just an open door and a steady stream of runaways and the homeless, people who endured an hour of questions in order to recline on a padded chaise in refrigerated air. Sophie enjoyed her doctor, an idealistic young man who had run away himself and suffered a kind of free-floating angst having to do with entitlement and disillusion. Outside, sweating in his car, Paolo had several less than noble thoughts on the topic of Sophie’s therapy. For instance, was the doctor attracted to her? And, if so, was Sophie mutually inclined? Was Paolo perhaps a subject of conversation? He didn’t inquire; she didn’t reveal. He, like the therapist, was careful never to seem like a probing parent, never to scold her for being high, for endangering herself, for eluding her mother and father. If she weren’t doing those very things—if she were still a senior at St. James High, living in her wallpapered girlhood bedroom, preparing now for the prom—he wouldn’t be with her at all. There would be no virtue in seducing her as her parents’ child, only reproach and judgment, banishment. Instead, he enjoyed the luxury of being better than the alternative—those filthy men who slept in the bayou and ate out of Dumpsters. The oddest of them actually had horns—a stump on each side of his forehead, surgically installed. A man whose ambition was to become a troll. Paolo was preferable, by far, to him; at least, this was the ongoing imaginary argument he made to Sophie’s parents. Whenever they parted, she kissed him. First it had been on the cheek; now it was on the mouth. What, he asked himself, would her tongue stud feel like, slipped between his teeth? During rehearsals, he imagined her observing him from the depths of the dark auditorium, her funky shoes hoisted onto the seat in front of her, the bullshit-detecting gaze levelled his way, and he found himself performing for her skeptical expectation, working to prove himself to her. “You were on fire,” his director said, praising him, and Paolo, still spellbound by the thought of Sophie, waved the compliment away. Her name came up by accident with Mary Annie. Paolo’s blood surged—in his face, his heart, his groin. They were vacuuming Mary Annie’s S.U.V. at a self-service car wash, sucking up the Irish-setter hair. Above the noise of the suction, she mentioned that the Gunns had been through three different private investigators before deciding that Sophie must have left the city. She and the Gunns were social acquaintances, on many of the same boards, and members of the same country club. The older Gunn daughter had gone to school with Mary Annie’s girl, Meredith. The families weren’t close, but the gossip of their lives circulated through the ranks. There was a lot of support in the system. Mary Annie was stretched across the carpeted cargo cabin, jamming the nozzle of the machine into the crevices, when she said, “I really feel for the Gunns. These kids are like terrorists. They hold their families hostage, basically. They make threats, they break negotiating promises, they aren’t afraid of the occasional suicide bombing. Tell me how they’re different from the other people we’ve declared terrorists.” Paolo had no answer. Mary Annie supplied her own, sighing as the machine abruptly ceased. “We love them,” she said. “That’s the problem.” Her eyes were moist. Her own daughter, the one who was due to deliver Mary Annie’s first grandchild in three months, had been a wild girl. She’d had to go survive in a camp in Utah for a few weeks, detoxing on a clifftop, rappelling and rafting and eating nuts and berries around a campfire with a bunch of other druggies. The cost of such restoration was astronomical. “If they could find Sophie, they could take her there. You can even pay someone to transport her,” Mary Annie said. “Sounds harsh,” Paolo said. She blinked up at him, slamming the hatchback door of the S.U.V. “Teen-agers steal years off your life,” she said. “The stress gave me an esophageal disorder. I still can’t use ziplock bags without thinking of Mere’s backpack full of them.” “But she came through O.K.,” Paolo said, nearly pleading. “She’s fine, right? Husband? Baby?” Mary Annie used two cupped hands to push back her hair and reattach a silver barrette held between her teeth. “Maybe. But my marriage started to go downhill because Tad and I couldn’t agree on what to do about her during those years. We took out all our anger at Meredith on each other. We went at it like tigers. It’s terrible to care for someone more than she cares for herself.” Mary Annie’s words, these last ones, ran like a banner through Paolo’s mind. He did not think he’d felt that way before, and it alarmed him to realize that it might be true of his affection for Sophie. “Did you know that your mom and dad hired private eyes?” he asked the girl later. This news surprised her, which was gratifying. Very little surprised her. “How hard could it be?” she asked. “Here I am.” “The point is they’re looking.” “They’re doing a piss-poor job,” she said, spreading her arms on the church steps. “Anyone who wants can see me.” But that wasn’t quite the case; she didn’t look like her old self. His recognition of her hadn’t been the same as a parent’s. What they were looking for was dated, buried deep. Paolo bought her a cell phone, because she’d thrown hers away after the battery had run down; also, her parents had known the number and filled the voice mail. He purchased two chargers and kept one in his car cigarette lighter for her to use as they cruised the sultry city in the comfort of air-conditioning and stereo sound. A few times, Paolo panicked because the phone was on his plan, a cheaper alternative but an implicating one, should, say, the unit be found on her dead body. He tried hard not to imagine her body dead, dead instead of slouched in his passenger seat, taking calls in a savage secret fashion. He fed her. He compromised, buying her cigarettes but not liquor. He considered it progress when she allowed him to see her on a weekend night, because that was when the clubs were busiest, when the kids she knew from St. James sneaked out into the dark. Paolo had once looked forward to weekends, but not anymore. All the worst things happened then. The weekends were when Mary Annie’s soon-to-be ex-husband was most likely to be pulled from sleep for an emergency transplant; the organ donors died then, on weekends and during holidays. One family’s tragedy led to another’s miracle; they might meet in heart-wrenching scenes in the hospital lounges and waiting rooms. Less and less often, Paolo took Mary Annie up on her offer for company during those nights when her husband was called away. As he sat with her—at restaurants, concerts, movies, between the sheets of her very comfortable bed—he resented Sophie’s power. And why had he given it to her, anyway? The girl had ruined Paolo’s nascent love for Mary Annie, eclipsed her elder easily, without even trying. “Hey, tough girl, don’t you worry about getting busted?” Paolo said peevishly as Sophie lit a small metal pipe in his front seat. She never asked permission. “And, if not for yourself, at least think of me, the adult driver.” He hated to feel so threatened by rule-makers. What had become of his own question-authority, fuck-you attitude? “I was already arrested,” she said, as if the event were like a baptism or an inoculation, singular and prophylactic, thereby making her exempt. “Dude, it’s so funny.” She’d been caught smoking hash in the bayou one night. The cop had cuffed her and dragged her to the downtown station, where he threw her in a cell. She phoned home and reached her father, who, on his outraged way across town, was himself stopped for D.U.I. and resisting arrest. He wasn’t allowed to drive her home, so her mother had to be called. But her mother was too sedated on pills to answer the phone, and her father was too embarrassed to call one of his friends, so they ended up calling a cousin, Mina. “Mina’s a total fuckup, so we figured she wouldn’t tell the rest of the family. It was our secret, me and Daddy’s. We didn’t fight for a while after that,” Sophie finished a little nostalgically. “That’s some family you’ve got there,” Paolo said, as she abruptly opened the passenger window and rapped the pipe on the exterior of the car, where Paolo would later find a ding. Instead of dropping her off in front of the church, he suggested a long ride around the city’s loop. Sophie took the opportunity to curl up against the headrest and take a nap, her hands in fists at her chin. Mouth partially open, eyes closed, she could have been ten or twelve years old, an ordinary pretty child. That she so wholly trusted him made Paolo afraid; what if he was not who he—and, presumably, she—believed he was? In April, when “Othello” opened, he gave Sophie a ticket. Like a high-school boy, he waited for her to materialize in the audience, in the seat he’d designated—to be for real where he’d installed her in his imagination for months. And, as he had been in high school, where high hopes wage war with low expectations, he was simultaneously disappointed and validated: no girl, no adulation, no fantasy fulfilled. It was hard not to be churlish, then, a week later, when he received her desperate call. She phoned him from a McDonald’s on Westheimer. “I feel hot,” she said—not passionately but listlessly. When he picked her up, her forehead burned beneath his wrist, though he had no notion what he was checking for—it was just another of his mother’s gestures. In the driveway of the guesthouse, he ascertained the absence of Clem and Sheila before hurrying Sophie up the rickety steps, following her lurching bottom, the painful pinch of her flesh as it met her metal belt. Once indoors, he drew the shades and opened the oven door to provide mood lighting, hiding inside his own home. She lay on the futon with a wet compress on her head, three aspirin and a slug of whiskey for her cold symptoms, bare dirty feet splayed. “I can’t sleep,” she said. “It’s been two days, and I just can’t fucking sleep!” “What did you take?” Paolo asked. “Nothing,” she claimed. But later revised—a few unknown things, not much, nothing new, that was for sure, and far less than usual. He was afraid to ask her to change her clothing, though it didn’t smell fresh; the sheets wouldn’t conform to the bed, slipping off under her twitching need to be constantly realigned. At the sink he took a hammer to a bundle of ice cubes, turning them into something palatable and cool for her, shards of slippery water passed from his trembling hand to her pink tongue. He thrilled sickeningly as she closed her lips around his fingers. He promised himself that if she showed just one sign of hallucination or seizure he’d rush her to the E.R. “My mind is racing,” she said. “I just can’t relax.” The fact that despite her exhaustion she could not let go of consciousness made her cry. Paolo knew the feeling. He sat beside her on the futon. “When I was young,” he said, remembering it as he spoke, “my mother used to do this thing.” He cleared his throat, lifted his voice, trying on his mother’s cigarette-tinged steadiness, her words like a rich note sustained on a saxophone. “Imagine lying in a field,” he began. “A field of grass, the ground below your head and hands, and the sky above. A little wind, the sound of”—he improvised—“wind chimes.” (Sheila’s were tinkling faintly from the yard.) “You think you’re relaxed, lying in your field, but not yet you aren’t. Squeeze your toes, squeeze and squeeze, and then let them go, just let them go. They might feel like they want to float. . . .” The ankles, the thighs, the hip bones, the clavicle. Up the body he went, from toes to knees to ribs to face. Paolo’s breathing slowed as he took Sophie through the incantation. He had been his mother’s youngest child, her only boy, his three older sisters wild girls who disappeared laughing into the night, leaving Paolo and their worried mother to wait for them at home. When he couldn’t sleep, when his vivid imagination plagued him, waking nightmares flashing before his closed eyes in a fearsome beating pattern, he called for his mother, who sat beside him and summoned the field of grass, the easy breeze, drifting clouds, sunshine, sleep. “Whattarya, Yoga Man?” Sophie said, a smile in her voice, but she obeyed his commands to clench and release, seize and relinquish. Calm overtook them both. The oven light flickered. A distant siren cried. And, finally, she slept, her fists as usual near her chin, her limbs still randomly twitching, the drugs firing and ricocheting inside her, despite her essential absence. Paolo breathed as deeply as his guest, more peaceful than he’d been in months. Either it was the certainty of her safety, here with him behind the locked guesthouse door, or it was his dead mother’s sudden presence. “Let him have it,” she said later, from inside a dream. “He can have it, I don’t want it.” She followed through with a dismissive swipe of her hand, which flopped off the futon and onto the floor. While he waited for morning—for light, for the disappearance of fever, for whatever shift toward optimism was going to occur—he turned the radio to a jazz station and watched the shimmering pool beneath his window. When Clem and Sheila came home, their lights went on, turning the house into a doll house, its bulbs flaring and extinguishing, revealing their ritual movements, the absent-minded passage through doors and halls, objects shifted from one room to another, keys, mail, laundry, a glass of water, the ascent from downstairs to up. Would his life ever resemble that life? House, pool, wife, routine? This guesthouse had been designed for visits from their children, those eventual adults, for the implicitly promised grandchildren. When Sophie rolled to the far side of the futon and fell into a heavier, unromantic sleep, Paolo shut the oven door, lowered the radio’s volume to a vague hum, and removed his outer layer of clothes. Wearing boxer shorts and a T-shirt, he carefully positioned himself beside her. Her back was turned to him, her hand now on her hip. He rested his head beside her pillow, shaping himself to complement her shape, breathing in the complicated odor of her head—hair product, smoke, sweat, something metallic, perhaps from her various piercing hardware. He lay for a long time inching his hand toward hers, finally covering it, as it made a fist in his grip. She arched herself backward against him automatically, her reflex one of welcome rather than repulsion, an attraction to the source of heat. And for a second Paolo, reacting without thinking, pressed his instant erection along the seam of her pants, its tip creased painfully by her studded belt. If he’d closed his eyes and let himself pretend, he could have followed through, could have told himself that she’d done much more with many worse, and later she most likely wouldn’t even remember. Instead, he turned over, planting a friendly backside against hers. His eyes were wide and he was aware of blinking them, yet soon enough he returned to the grassy field they both inhabited, watching the clouds and drifting with her by his side. In the morning, she was gone. He could have dreamed the evening, for all the evidence he had of it. After trying her cell phone—“Hey, muthafucka, leemee a messsssssage”—he drove to the church, but it was an act of hope rather than reason. Now he was like her parents, he thought, seeking her at a disadvantage, lagging two steps behind, berating himself for having let her slip, literally, through his fingers. “Where’s our friend?” he shouted to the troll, who did a kind of “You talking to me?” routine before he limped reluctantly to Paolo’s vehicle and scowled in at him. “Our friend Sophie,” Paolo clarified. The man’s forehead sprouted two inch-high protrusions, each of which, though bluish in color, clearly had veins of blood circulating just under the tight thin skin. “Wow,” Paolo added, unable not to comment. Without thinking, he touched his own forehead. Though Sophie had patiently told him the names of all her comrades, Paolo had instead assigned them nicknames—the troll, the rooster, the slag heap, Mr. Natural. Others were moving slowly toward his car. If they decided that it was he, Paolo, who was responsible for Sophie’s disappearance, what might they do to him? “Fuck off, man,” the rooster said. He was older than Paolo had realized, a tense man with a bright-orange Mohawk razored straight up the middle of his head. Tattoos crawled up from his shirt collar. When he walked along Montrose, he swung a car antenna in front of him as if bushwhacking. He and the troll and half a dozen others had now virtually surrounded Paolo’s little convertible. Someone put an anchoring foot on the rear bumper, creating an ominous sag. “How’s it going?” Paolo said to the group, looking for allies. “You guys seen Sophie? Purple hair?” “Last we saw, she was with you, Miata,” someone said. So they had named him, too. Well, it was only fair. The rooster reached into his pocket, and Paolo flinched, fearing a gun or a knife. Instead, he pulled out a cell phone. “You the one calling?” Paolo stared at Sophie’s phone. “ ’Cause she asked me to take her calls.” He put the little device to his cheek. “Hold, please.” “Where is she?” Paolo asked. But none of them were saying. He felt as if he’d been sent back to elementary school, to a circle of taunting children who did not play by grownups’ rules. If he got out of the car and grabbed for the phone, they would toss it among themselves. Abruptly he popped the car into gear, shooting out from under the foot on his bumper. Why this urgency, he asked himself, shifting to third, then fourth gear. Before, he’d gone days and weeks without seeing her. Yet he felt that he had to share with her one important fact: I didn’t do anything, he would say. I was good. Nothing happened. A few weeks later, at the end of Paolo’s time in Houston, late one night after the last of his going-away parties, she called him and said, slurring, “Hey, I’m in jail?” His had been the only number stored in her cell phone—he’d programmed it himself when he bought it. While it was in the hands of the gang, he’d received a few accidental calls, shouting and singing and odd bits of street noise coming over the line. He dressed among the boxes that held his belongings. But, before he left the apartment, she phoned again, to tell him that she’d been mistaken: hospital, not jail. She’d been picked up riding the bus, passed out and in possession of some controlled substances that had poured from her pockets. After she’d ridden the route twice, the bus driver had delivered her to the downtown station, where she’d been thrown into a cell before fully waking. She’d refused to tell them who she was. Her school photo, Paolo assumed, the one her parents had submitted to the cops when she ran away, looked nothing like her. Someone or something—a fight, a fall—had knocked out one of her top front teeth. Her eyebrow had bled, probably because a ring had been torn from it, but the amount of blood, its flow over her face, had made her captors nervous enough to send her to the emergency room rather than keep her at the jail. And this is where Paolo drove, at four-thirty in the humid May morning, to retrieve her. “Paul,” she said. “You aren’t wearing gloves.” In the grim green light of the basement hallway, he looked at his hands, as if he’d forgotten what was or wasn’t on them. “Why would I be wearing gloves?” “The others did.” In addition to her slur, she had a vague lisp. Her inability to stand up frightened him. The orderlies found nothing new or interesting in their situation; Paolo was allowed to sit beside her in the busy hallway as paperwork was undertaken. She wore two thin hospital gowns and an I.D. bracelet that named her Jane Doe. “You have to say who you are,” he told her. “No.” “Then I will. Sophie Gunn,” he told a passing uniformed cop. “She’s a runaway.” Just like that, he saw, he had joined the other side, turned into an adult. He hadn’t felt such relief since a visit to a church confession box, twenty years earlier. “I’m eighteen,” she lisped. “On May 1st, I was eighteen. May Queen,” she added, smiling raggedly. The cop waited for the two of them to get their stories straight. Being eighteen meant that the parents wouldn’t be notified but that the possession charge would be transferred from juvenile to regular court. And then if she wasn’t indigent there was this emergency-room bill to reconcile. Sophie started to gag. Both men shifted away instantly; she covered her mouth and staggered toward the women’s room. Paolo and the cop watched her disappear behind the door. “Her father’s Bobby Gunn,” Paolo said. “I’ll phone him if you can’t.” “If she’s eighteen, she doesn’t need her daddy.” In the end, it was Mary Annie whom Paolo phoned. The Gunns, naturally, were not listed. She answered unsurprised—she was expecting a call from the hospital, to tell her that her grandchild had been born. “It’s me,” Paolo said. “I’m with Sophie Gunn.” His explanation was brief, uninspired, suspect, no doubt, but he was too tired to embellish, too close to leaving Houston to really care what Mary Annie thought of him. Maybe that was another grown-up trait—not caring. She found the Gunns’ phone number and wished him luck. It took a lot of rings to rouse them. Their expectation of hearing from their daughter had apparently waned. “Wha’?” her father, the mumbler, said. “I’ve got your daughter,” Paolo said. “She’s with me.” But this wasn’t true, after all. For she had not returned to her seat beside Paolo after running to the rest room. The officer came back, a sheaf of papers in hand, calling her name as he passed through the hallway of the bleeding and bandaged. “Gunn,” he said, in time to his heavy echoing footsteps, “Gunn. Gunn. Gunn?” There was a time, earlier in the strange relationship that Paolo had with Sophie Gunn, when he should have given her up, turned her in, ended his role in a questionable business. This was at one of the ubiquitous fund-raisers, not a Rubber Chicken (sit-down) dinner but a cheese-cube, stuffed-mushroom (standup) affair. At this party, Paolo was paying careful attention to the Gunns—Mrs. Gunn, whose smile clearly pained her, its hollowness owing no doubt to her anxiety about her daughter, and Bobby, who had a talent for attracting people in a circle around him. The others leaned in, scowling, to make out his murmuring anecdotes. Paolo found a place on the edge of the crowd, listening, holding a wineglass like a mask before his face. Bobby Gunn, having reached a few too many times for the champagne that floated by on the caterers’ trays and not often enough for the hors d’oeuvres also circulating, was discussing his missing daughter. In the gathering of glamorously dressed friends, parents themselves of teen-agers and young marrieds, he told the story of his heartbreak: the all-star-equestrian, straight-A-student daughter who ran away, got into drugs, was lost to him on the streets. Paolo flushed, longing for the strength either to walk away or to confess. “Teen-age girls are the canaries in the coal mine,” one of the party guests posited. “We think they’re so hard to live with, and yet just think how hard it must be to be them.” “Just think,” another listener agreed drolly, a former beauty in late middle age. What she wouldn’t do, Paolo thought, to be seventeen again. “It’s the boys who drive up your car insurance,” a father said. “Still, they’re easier than the girls.” Such was the conventional wisdom concerning delinquency, youth: the wildness that hadn’t yet been harnessed, the bad habits still blatant, the obsessions and addictions that might in the future be channelled, put to good, or at least profitable, use. Paolo distinctly felt his place in both worlds, the young and the old, and yet felt committed to belonging to neither. Now the crowd began offering its own evidence. Teen-age girls: This one had stolen her grandmother’s silver. That one had driven a car into the swimming pool. Another had left the children she was babysitting to go to the liquor store with her boyfriend. Or she’d let the children watch as she screwed the boyfriend, sex ed in the family room. She’d leaped off a roof. She’d run naked through the mall. She’d set up an Internet porn site featuring herself and her sisters. She’d said to her mother, each and every day, “Die, you psycho cunt!” These girls. They were presented like poker hands, each one upping the ante. But Bobby Gunn raised his voice above the general din. His story was not over. Apparently he was offering advice—solace? warning?—to one of the circle of listeners, a newcomer, the father of an eleven-year-old girl, who was just now entering this rocky terrain. The man had bowed his head, and Bobby Gunn reached out a hand to pat his shoulder. “You’ve done all you can do,” he said with certainty. “Sometimes it just comes down to luck. We got unlucky with ours. The worst thing you can imagine just keeps getting worse. You find yourself doing and saying the most unlikely things.” And now he related, in his increasingly choked voice, the rest of the story. His daughter had not only disappeared; she had been incarcerated. While there, in psychiatric care, she’d hanged herself. Paolo gasped, his heart seized, his body believing the story even as his mind swiftly contradicted it. What? Sophie had been lounging on her stoop that very morning, no better than yesterday, true, but certainly no worse. Incarceration? Why, he must mean the hash-smoking incident, with his own D.U.I. to complicate the matter. Was Gunn using Sophie to elicit pity? And how, exactly, did he think he could get away with it? These people had been babysitting and hiring and marrying and nominating and showering and cuckolding and roasting and eulogizing one another for generations; anyone other than the newcomer in the small circle would immediately recognize this as a lie. “Laurel,” Bobby Gunn said then, swilling the last of his drink. The circle of friends bowed their heads. And in the time it took to inhale a single breath Paolo remembered that there had been another daughter. Sophie’s older sister. His mind stumbled into chaotic synch with his heart. This was what should have forced him to end his secret life with Sophie. To retrieve his silly car from the valet service and drive three miles east to the scary rubble of the transitional side of town and pull the girl out of it, drag her by force, by the nape of her neck, into this clubhouse. It should have impelled him to act. But it didn’t. Paolo had been back in New York for almost a year when he heard about Sophie’s marriage. Mary Annie sent him the Chronicle picture of the girl and her fiancé, the two of them no different from any of the other photographed couples, sitting in an arbor in the usual costumes, his hands on her shoulders. Paolo didn’t spot her when he first scanned the page, looking for that trademark smile. But the unremarkability of the image was, of course, what made it remarkable. Her hair—could it be a wig? Surely all the king’s hairdressers wouldn’t have been able to tame that nest of singed straw and dye, or grow it out so hastily to the blond coif she now wore. There were no visible punctures in her eyebrows or nose or the tops of her ears. Airbrushing? Or had she simply healed that quickly? Credit the resilience of youth? He stared at the photo, oblivious of the fiancé, whose hands bore no tattoos, whose brown hair swept over a forehead that might still be spotted with pimples but certainly didn’t sprout horns. That person was inconsequential to Paolo. And Paolo realized that he himself was as inconsequential to Sophie as any other Houstonian who happened to page through the Lifestyle section that Sunday morning. Then Paolo gazed into Sophie’s clear, smart eyes until he finally saw what he had missed: this girl had prevailed. Her triumph was in the tilt of her chin, in the provocative parting of her lips, behind which lay the promise of that stunning naughty smile, the knocked-out tooth that would, of course, have been repaired. All along he’d misunderstood the role she was playing, the drama she was enacting. The story he’d been constructing for himself when he was with her—that intense period during which he wasn’t turning her in to her parents or to the authorities, the extent of what he’d considered his moral quandary and journey—had been another story altogether; Sophie had been fashioning it for herself and for her mother and her father, for their well-intentioned, grieving friends, for her own friends still in school, and, most significantly, for the memory of her sister. I have survived, she had concluded the tale—the victor. Paolo wondered if others understood the amazing and unlikely thing Sophie had done, the treacherous gauntlet she’d run and come through intact. This same newspaper had announced the arrival of Mary Annie’s first grandchild early the summer before, a little girl, named something fanciful and trendily ridiculous, something that her parents, particularly her mother, Meredith, former dope dealer and hell-raiser, hoped and prayed would suit her as she emerged into the world. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Bohemians	In a lovely urban coincidence, the last two houses on our block were both occupied by widows who had lost their husbands in Eastern European pogroms. Dad called them the Bohemians. He called anyone white with an accent a Bohemian. Whenever he saw one of the Bohemians, he greeted her by mispronouncing the Czech word for “door.” Neither Bohemian was Czech, but both were polite, so when Dad said “door” to them they answered cordially, as if he weren’t perennially schlockered. Mrs. Poltoi, the stouter Bohemian, had spent the war in a crawl space, splitting a daily potato with five cousins. Consequently she was bitter and claustrophobic and loved food. If you ate something while standing near her, she stared at it going into your mouth. She wore only black. She said the Catholic Church was a jewelled harlot drinking the blood of the poor. She said America was a spoiled child ignorant of grief. When our ball rolled onto her property, she seized it and waddled into her back yard and pitched it into the quarry. Mrs. Hopanlitski, on the other hand, was thin, and joyfully made pipe-cleaner animals. When I brought home one of her crude dogs in top hats, Mom said, “Take over your Mold-A-Hero. To her, it will seem like the toy of a king.” To Mom, the camps, massacres, and railroad sidings of twenty years before were as unreal as covered wagons. When Mrs. H. claimed her family had once owned serfs, Mom’s attention wandered. She had a tract house in mind. No way was she getting one. We were renting a remodelled garage behind the Giancarlos, and Dad was basically drinking up the sporting-goods store. His N.F.L. helmets were years out of date. I’d stop by after school and find the store closed and Dad getting sloshed among the fake legs with Bennie Delmonico at Prosthetics World. Using the Mold-A-Hero, I cast Mrs. H. a plastic Lafayette, and she said she’d keep it forever on her sill. Within a week, she’d given it to Elizabeth the Raccoon. I didn’t mind. Raccoon, an only child like me, had nothing. The Kletz brothers called her Raccoon for the bags she had under her eyes from never sleeping. Her parents fought non-stop. They fought over breakfast. They fought in the yard in their underwear. At dusk they stood on their porch whacking each other with lengths of weather stripping. Raccoon practically had spinal curvature from spending so much time slumped over with misery. When the Kletz brothers called her Raccoon, she indulged them by rubbing her hands together ferally. The nickname was the most attention she’d ever had. Sometimes she’d wish to be hit by a car so she could come back as a true raccoon and track down the Kletzes and give them rabies. “Never wish harm on yourself or others,” Mrs. H. said. “You are a lovely child.” Her English was flat and clear, almost like ours. “Raccoon, you mean,” Raccoon said. “A lovely raccoon.” “A lovely child of God,” Mrs. H. said. “Yeah, right,” Raccoon said. “Tell again about the prince.” So Mrs. H. told again how she’d stood rapt in her yard watching an actual prince powder his birthmark to invisibility. She remembered the smell of burning compost from the fields, and men in colorful leggings dragging a gutted boar across a wooden bridge. This was before she was forced to become a human pack animal in the Carpathians, carrying the personal belongings of cruel officers. At night, they chained her to a tree. Sometimes they burned her calves with a machine-gun barrel for fun. Which was why she always wore kneesocks. After three years, she’d come home to find her babies in tiny graves. They were, she would say, short-lived but wonderful gifts. She did not now begrudge God for taking them. A falling star is brief, but isn’t one nonetheless glad to have seen it? Her grace made us hate Mrs. Poltoi all the more. What was eating a sixth of a potato every day compared to being chained to a tree? What was being crammed in with a bunch of your cousins compared to having your kids killed? The summer I was ten, Raccoon and I, already borderline rejects due to our mutually unravelling households, were joined by Art Siminiak, who had recently made the mistake of inviting the Kletzes in for lemonade. There was no lemonade. Instead, there was Art’s mom and a sailor from Great Lakes passed out naked across the paper-drive stacks on the Siminiaks’ sunporch. This new, three-way friendship consisted of slumping in gangways, playing gloveless catch with a Wiffle, trailing hopefully behind kids whose homes could be entered without fear of fiasco. Over on Mozart lived Eddie the Vacant. Eddie was seventeen, huge and simple. He could crush a walnut in his bare hand, but first you had to put it there and tell him to do it. Once he’d pinned a “Vacant” sign to his shirt and walked around the neighborhood that way, and the name had stuck. Eddie claimed to see birds. Different birds appeared on different days of the week. Also, there was a Halloween bird and a Christmas bird. One day, as Eddie hobbled by, we asked what kind of birds he was seeing. “Party birds,” he said. “They got big streamers coming out they butts.” “You having a party?” said Art. “You having a homo party?” “I gone have a birthday party,” said Eddie, blinking shyly. “Your dad know?” Raccoon said. “No, he don’t yet,” said Eddie. His plans for the party were private and illogical. We peppered him with questions, hoping to get him to further embarrass himself. The party would be held in his garage. As far as the junk car in there, he would push it out by hand. As far as the oil on the floor, he would soak it up using Handi Wipes. As far as music, he would play a trumpet. “What are you going to play the trumpet with?” said Art. “Your asshole?” “No, I not gone play it with that,” Eddie said. “I just gone use my lips, O.K.?” As far as girls, there would be girls; he knew many girls, from his job managing the Drake Hotel, he said. As far as food, there would be food, including pudding dumplings. “You’re the manager of the Drake Hotel,” Raccoon said. “Hey, I know how to get the money for pudding dumplings!” Eddie said. Then he rang Poltoi’s bell and asked for a contribution. She said for what. He said for him. She said to what end. He looked at her blankly and asked for a contribution. She asked him to leave the porch. He asked for a contribution. Somewhere, he’d got the idea that, when asking for a contribution, one angled to sit on the couch. He started in, and she pushed him back with a thick forearm. Down the front steps he went, ringing the iron bannister with his massive head. He got up and staggered away, a little blood on his scalp. “Learn to leave people be!” Poltoi shouted after him. Ten minutes later, Eddie, Sr., stood on Poltoi’s porch, a hulking effeminate tailor too cowed to use his bulk for anything but butting open the jamming door at his shop. “Since when has it become the sport to knock unfortunates down stairs?” he asked. “He was not listen,” she said. “I tell him no. He try to come inside.” “With all respect,” he said, “it is in my son’s nature to perhaps be not so responsive.” “Someone so unresponse, keep him indoors,” she said. “He is big as a man. And I am old lady.” “Never has Eddie presented a danger to anyone,” Eddie, Sr., said. “I know my rights,” she said. “Next time, I call police.” But, having been pushed down the stairs, Eddie the Vacant couldn’t seem to stay away. “Off this porch,” Poltoi said through the screen when he showed up the next day, offering her an empty cold-cream jar for three dollars. “We gone have so many snacks,” he said. “And if I drink a alcohol drink, then watch out. Because I ain’t allowed. I dance too fast.” He was trying the doorknob now, showing how fast he would dance if alcohol was served. “Please, off this porch!” she shouted. “Please, off this porch!” he shouted back, doubling at the waist in wacky laughter. Poltoi called the cops. Normally, Lieutenant Brusci would have asked Eddie what bird was in effect that day and given him a ride home in his squad. But this was during the OneCity fiasco. To cut graft, cops were being yanked off their regular beats and replaced by cops from other parts of town. A couple of Armenians from South Shore showed up and dragged Eddie off the porch in a club lock so tight he claimed the birds he was seeing were beakless. “I’ll give you a beak, Frankenstein,” said one of the Armenians, tightening the choke hold. Eddie entered the squad with all the fluidity of a hatrack. Art and Raccoon and I ran over to Eddie, Sr.,’s tailor shop, above the Marquee, which had sunk to porn. When Eddie, Sr., saw us, he stopped his Singer by kicking out the plug. From downstairs came a series of erotic moans. Eddie, Sr., rushed to the hospital with his Purple Heart and some photos of Eddie as a grinning, wet-chinned kid on a pony. He found Eddie handcuffed to a bed, with an I.V. drip and a smashed face. Apparently, he’d bitten one of the Armenians. Bail was set at three hundred. The tailor shop made zilch. Eddie, Sr.,’s fabrics were a lexicon of yesteryear. Dust coated a bright-yellow sign that read “Zippers Repaired in Jiffy.” “Jail for that kid, I admit, don’t make total sense,” the judge said. “Three months in the Anston. Best I can do.” The Anston Center for Youth was a red brick former forge now yarded in barbed wire. After their shifts, the guards held loud, hooting orgies kitty-corner at Zem’s Lamplighter. Skinny immigrant women arrived at Zem’s in station wagons and emerged hours later adjusting their stockings. From all over Chicago kids were sent to the Anston, kids who’d only ever been praised for the level of beatings they gave and received and their willingness to carve themselves up. One Anston kid had famously hired another kid to run over his foot. Another had killed his mother’s lover with a can opener. A third had sliced open his own eyelid with a pop-top on a dare. Eddie the Vacant disappeared into the Anston in January and came out in March. To welcome him home, Eddie, Sr., had the neighborhood kids over. Eddie the Vacant looked so bad even the Kletzes didn’t joke about how bad he looked. His nose was off center and a scald mark ran from ear to chin. When you got too close, his hands shot up. When the cake was served, he dropped his plate, shouting, “Leave a guy alone!” Our natural meanness now found a purpose. Led by the Kletzes, we cut through Poltoi’s hose, bashed out her basement windows with ball-peens, pushed her little shopping cart over the edge of the quarry and watched it end-over-end into the former Slag Ravine. Then it was spring and the quarry got busy. When the noon blast went off, our windows rattled. The three-o’clock blast was even bigger. Raccoon and Art and I made a fort from the cardboard shipping containers the Cline frames came in. One day, while pretending the three-o’clock blast was atomic, we saw Eddie the Vacant bounding toward our fort through the weeds, like some lover in a commercial, only fatter and falling occasionally. His trauma had made us kinder toward him. “Eddie,” Art said. “You tell your dad where you’re at?” “It no big problem,” Eddie said. “I was gone leave my dad a note.” “But did you?” said Art. “I’ll leave him a note when I get back,” said Eddie. “I gone come in with you now.” “No room,” said Raccoon. “You’re too huge.” “That a good one!” said Eddie, crowding in. Down in the quarry were the sad cats, the slumping watchman’s shack, the piles of reddish, discarded dynamite wrappings that occasionally rose erratically up the hillside like startled birds. Along the quarryside trail came Mrs. Poltoi, dragging a new shopping cart. “Look at that pig,” said Raccoon. “Eddie, that’s the pig that put you away.” “What did they do to you in there, Ed?” said Art. “Did they mess with you?” “No, they didn’t,” said Eddie. “I just a say to them, ‘Leave a guy alone!’ I mean, sometime they did, O.K.? Sometime that one guy say, ‘Hey, Eddie, pull your thing! We gone watch you.’ ” “O.K., O.K.,” said Art. At dusk, the three of us would go to Mrs. H.’s porch. She’d bring out cookies and urge forgiveness. It wasn’t Poltoi’s fault her heart was small, she told us. She, Mrs. H., had seen a great number of things, and seeing so many things had enlarged her heart. Once, she had seen Göring. Once, she had seen Einstein. Once, during the war, she had seen a whole city block, formerly thick with furriers, bombed black overnight. In the morning, charred bodies had crawled along the street, begging for mercy. One such body had grabbed her by the ankle, and she recognized it as Bergen, a friend of her father’s. “What did you do?” said Raccoon. “Not important now,” said Mrs. H., gulping back tears, looking off into the quarry. Then disaster. Dad got a check for shoulder pads for all six district football teams and, trying to work things out with Mom, decided to take her on a cruise to Jamaica. Nobody in our neighborhood had ever been on a cruise. Nobody had even been to Wisconsin. The disaster was, I was staying with Poltoi. Ours was a liquor household, where you could ask a question over and over in utter sincerity and never get a straight answer. I asked and asked, “Why her?” And was told and told, “It will be an adventure.” I asked, “Why not Grammy?” I was told, “Grammy don’t feel well.” I asked, “Why not Hopanlitski?” Dad did this like snort. “Like that’s gonna happen,” said Mom. “Why not, why not?” I kept asking. “Because shut up,” they kept answering. Just after Easter, over I went, with my little green suitcase. I was a night panicker and occasional bed-wetter. I’d wake drenched and panting. Had they told her? I doubted it. Then I knew they hadn’t, from the look on her face the first night, when I peed myself and woke up screaming. “What’s this?” she said. “Pee,” I said, humiliated beyond any ability to lie. “Ach, well,” she said. “Who don’t? This also used to be me. Pee pee pee. I used to dream of a fish who cursed me.” She changed the sheets gently, with no petulance—a new one on me. Often Ma, still half asleep, popped me with the wet sheet, saying when at last I had a wife, she herself could finally get some freaking sleep. Then the bed was ready, and Poltoi made a sweeping gesture, like, Please. I got in. She stayed standing there. “You know,” she said. “I know they say things. About me, what I done to that boy. But I had a bad time in the past with a big stupid boy. You don’t gotta know. But I did like I did that day for good reason. I was scared at him, due to something what happened for real to me.” She stood in the half-light, looking down at her feet. “Do you get?” she said. “Do you? Can you get it, what I am saying?” “I think so,” I said. “Tell to him,” she said. “Tell to him sorry, explain about it, tell your friends also. If you please. You have a good brain. That is why I am saying to you.” Something in me rose to this. I’d never heard it before but I believed it: I had a good brain. I could be trusted to effect a change. Next day was Saturday. She made soup. We played a game using three slivers of soap. We made placemats out of colored strips of paper, and she let me teach her my spelling words. Around noon, the doorbell rang. At the door stood Mrs. H. “Everything O.K.?” she said, poking her head in. “Yes, fine,” said Poltoi. “I did not eat him yet.” “Is everything really fine?” Mrs. H. said to me. “You can say.” “It’s fine,” I said. “You can say,” she said fiercely. Then she gave Poltoi a look that seemed to say, Hurt him and you will deal with me. “You silly woman,” said Poltoi. “You are going now.” Mrs. H. went. We resumed our spelling. It was tense in a quiet-house way. Things ticked. When Poltoi missed a word, she pinched her own hand, but not hard. It was like symbolic pinching. Once when she pinched, she looked at me looking at her, and we laughed. Then we were quiet again. “That lady?” she finally said. “She like to lie. Maybe you don’t know. She say she is come from where I come from?” “Yes,” I said. “She is lie,” she said. “She act so sweet and everything but she lie. She been born in Skokie. Live here all her life, in America. Why you think she talk so good?” All week, Poltoi made sausage, noodles, potato pancakes; we ate like pigs. She had tea and cakes ready when I came home from school. At night, if necessary, she dried me off, moved me to her bed, changed the sheets, put me back, with never an unkind word. “Will pass, will pass,” she’d hum. Mom and Dad came home tanned, with a sailor cap for me, and, in a burst of post-vacation honesty, confirmed it: Mrs. H. was a liar. A liar and a kook. Nothing she said was true. She’d been a cashier at Goldblatt’s but had been caught stealing. When caught stealing, she’d claimed to be with the Main Office. When a guy from the Main Office came down, she’d claimed to be with the F.B.I. Then she’d produced a letter from Lady Bird Johnson, but in her own handwriting, with “Johnson” spelled “Jonsen.” I told the other kids what I knew, and in time they came to believe it, even the Kletzes. And, once we believed it, we couldn’t imagine we hadn’t seen it all along. Another spring came, once again birds nested in bushes on the sides of the quarry. A thrown rock excited a thrilling upward explosion. Thin rivers originated in our swampy back yards, and we sailed boats made of flattened shoeboxes, Twinkie wrappers, crimped tinfoil. Raccoon glued together three balsa-wood planes and placed on this boat a turd from her dog, Svengooli, and, as Svengooli’s turd went over a little waterfall and disappeared into the quarry, we cheered. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Daisy	The day that Daisy died was a lot like this one, early August, with the sun seemingly stuck right at the top of the sky, casting light and heat that made all the neighborhood kids vault over each other with glee and subdued everyone else, moms and dads and older folks and even the family pets. Daisy liked the heat, and though she didn’t know how to swim, she’d spend plenty of time in our back-yard pool, tanning in her plaid one-piece in the floating lounger or else dog-paddling with an old-fashioned life preserver looped under her arms. I tried to teach her how to swim a couple of times, but I’d end up all scratched around the neck and shoulders, Daisy lurching and pulling on me whenever I let her go, yelling if her face or scalp got wet. She wasn’t dainty or persnickety but for some reason she hated being submerged. She always showered with a cap and on alternate days shampooed her hair in the kitchen sink, the drain of which I’d have to unclog every couple of weeks, pulling out the thick black strands with a pair of chopsticks. And I swear—I swear, I swear—that I never imagined for a second that the pool was dangerous, at least for her. Sure, I jumped in a half-dozen times to pluck out one of my kids or their mangy booger-streaked friends thrashing fitfully in the deep end, but Daisy was always careful and tentative; even after she started to change and began seeing our family doctor for meds, she entered the water as if it were as hot as soup, then pushed off from the steps with her float tube and kicked, her taut chin just above the surface. “Hey, honey,” she’d say to me, the ends of her hair slicked to pencil points. “I’m a mermaid.” “Sexier than that,” I’d say, through the Sunday paper, through the summer haze. It was nice like that, a lot of the time. I remember how Theresa and Jack would spend pretty much every second between breakfast and dinner in the pool, or running about on the concrete surround and the lawn spraying each other and whatever friends were around with water pistols filled with Hi-C punch, or sometimes even pee. (I caught them once in the rickety little cabana I’d built, giggling and pissing all over their hands.) If it was the weekend, I’d be out there for a good while, too. I’d chuck the kids around in the water and play the monster or the buffoon and do a belly flop or two for a finale, then dry off and wrap a towel around my waist and drag a chaise and a beer beneath the maples and doze until one of the kids got hurt or fell or puked after drinking too much pool water, all of which in the heat and brightness and clamor made for a mighty decent time. This was dependent, of course, on what mood Daisy was in, but in those early days she was pretty solid, she was pretty much herself, she was just like the girl I fell in love with. In the afternoon, she would set up the patio table with all kinds of vittles—she’d have soppressata and sugar ham and a crock of port-wine cheese and Ritz and Triscuits, and she’d have plenty of carrot and celery sticks and pimiento olives—and then she’d bring out an electric fryer, a long contractor’s extension cord snaking back through the kitchen window, to fry chicken wings or butterflied shrimp or French fries right there on the table, so the food was hot and fresh. If my folks or other people were going to be over, she’d put out her homemade eggrolls and some colorful seaweed-and-rice thing that we didn’t yet know, back in 1975, was sushi, and which people in our part of Long Island couldn’t believe she had made, along with spicy sweet ribs and a cold noodle dish whose Korean name she always told us but we could never remember, although everyone loved it and always finished it first. She had this way of arranging the food that made you think of formal gardens: everything was garnished with fans of sliced oranges or shrubs of kale or waterfowl she’d carved out of apples, giving them shiny red wings. I was working a lot then, having just been made second-in-command at Battle Brothers Brick & Mortar, a masonry company started by my grandfather during the Depression which my father and uncles had transformed into a successful landscaping firm, and which I have maintained with much hard work, if little passion. I never had any love for brick and mortar, or for mulch and shrubs, and in those days I was mostly waiting around for my brother Bobby to return from Vietnam and take my place, which he never did. Daisy was like a lot of the young mothers in the neighborhood, which meant that she took care of the house and the kids and the cooking and the bills and whatever else came up that I could have dealt with but didn’t, for the usual semi-acceptable reasons of men; but Daisy didn’t mind, that was never a problem between us, because when you got right down to it she was an old-fashioned girl in matters of family, and also because her nature (before she changed and ended up another person entirely) preferred order to everything else, and certainly didn’t want any lame hand Jerry Battle could provide. In fact, the first real signs of her troubles were the kinds of things you see in most people’s houses—stuff like piles of folded laundry waiting to be put away, some dishes in the sink, toys loose underfoot—but for Daisy, when this began to happen, it meant there was a quiet disaster occurring, a cave-in somewhere deep in the core. One time, on a day just like this, kids frolicking about, our guests arrayed around the back yard and the spread of goodies on the patio table, Daisy suddenly unravelled. I don’t know what happened exactly but one of the kids must have bumped the table where she was using the deep fryer, and hot oil lipped over the edge and splashed onto the table and then spilled down onto her sandalled foot. I knew something had happened because I saw her jump a little and leap back, and it occurred to me only later that she didn’t shout or scream or make any sound at all. I went over to see if she was burned, but before I could get there Daisy did the oddest thing: she picked up the fryer by its handles, turned it over, and slammed it on the table, the oil and chicken wings spurting out sideways, luckily in nobody’s direction. I yanked the extension cord off and asked her if she was all right, and she had a sickened look on her face and she said that it was an accident and she was sorry. By this time our guests had crowded around. I’m sure no one saw what had really happened, since everyone was appropriately concerned, but I knew and I got angry (if only because I was confused and a little scared) and yelled at her to be more careful. She started crying and that brought an end to the afternoon, most of our guests deciding to leave, among them some neighbors, who never called us again. Of course, somewhere not so deep down, none of what happened that afternoon was a surprise to me. From the moment I met Daisy, on the main floor of Gimbels in New York, where she was offering sample sprays of men’s cologne (I think it was Pierre Cardin, a huge phallic bottle of which I bought that day and may still have in the bottom of the bathroom vanity), I knew she was volatile. At Gimbels, Daisy sprayed me before I consented and then sprayed me again, and I would have been really annoyed except that she was amazingly bright-eyed and pretty and she had these perfect little hands, with which she smoothed down my coat collar. She’d been in the country for only a few months, attending Hunter College to study art history. She had a heavy accent to her English, but she wasn’t a tentative talker. She let her talk spill out in a messy exuberant froth, the effect instantly inundating and certainly charming and not at all unsexy. I asked her if she would take a walk with me and she left her post without a word to anyone and we ended up lunching at the H. & H. automat, where I had an egg-salad sandwich and she got the Salisbury-steak meal with mashed potatoes and gravy, plus side dishes of cut corn and green beans and for dessert a slice of both German chocolate cake and cherry pie. She bolted all of it down as if she were some war refugee, but she was perfectly neat and systematic in doing so—every square of steak was larded with mashed potato, every forkful of cake or pie topped with whipped cream, the gravy finally cleaned up with white bread and the syrupy cherry filling with her index finger, the last dredge of which she offered up and let me lick. I probably thought then that she was loony, but—surprise, surprise—I didn’t care. I had no idea what real craziness was. I thought people like my father and my little brother Bobby were off kilter and ego-active and maybe in need of professional help, but I didn’t know what it meant to be D.S.M.-certified, described in the literature, perhaps totally nuts. Just before he went to Vietnam on his first and last tour, Bobby threw Ma and Pop a surprise wedding-anniversary party—their twenty-sixth or twenty-seventh, definitely not one of the big ones—spending every last dime he had made playing a couple of summers of minor-league baseball on a fifty-guest dinner in the city at a famous French restaurant with murals on the walls. Pop was so pleased when he arrived that he told the sommelier to bring out his best wine (which he’d always do at the Chianti Corner in Islip when entertaining a Battle Brothers customer), but a couple of cases of Château Incroyable later the bill had tripled. Bobby couldn’t cover it. Luckily I was still carrying the day’s receipts, and with a few last secreted bills from Ma we avoided any embarrassment, and all the while Pop and Bobby were toasting each other’s good taste and fealty and love. For years Pop would say that Bobby should have met and married Daisy, that he would have been a better match for her than I. He was probably right, though I’m sure that, had Bobby ever returned from the war, Pop would have steered him to a reliable domestic model, some quiet local girl who wouldn’t fire up the afterburners when she didn’t need to. A month or so after the deep-fryer incident, the first genuine trouble revealed itself. Daisy went off to Bloomingdale’s and charged up seven thousand dollars on a leather living-room set and a full-length chinchilla coat. We had a terrific fight, me rabid with disbelief and Daisy defiant and bitter, talking about how she “knew class people” and mocking me for “working in dirt” like some peasant or field hand. Her eyes were wild and she was almost spitting with hatred. In the previous days, she had bought herself and the kids several new outfits and served us filet mignon and lobsters and repainted our bedroom a deep Persian crimson. I didn’t know then that these actions were indicative of a grandiose run-up to a truly alarming finale; in fact, I was pretty pleased, because Daisy seemed happy for the first time in a long time. She was lively with the kids and we were making love every night. I figured I was still way ahead of a lot of other guys with young families I knew, who were already playing the field and spending most of their free time away from the house. If Daisy hadn’t blitzkrieged our net worth at Bloomingdale’s nothing much would have changed; it’s likely I wouldn’t have cared if she were only steadily depleting our bank account, a time-honored activity in our civilized world. This was 1975, though, when the economy was basically shitting itself, and Jack and Theresa were seven and six and I was making twenty thousand dollars a year at Battle Brothers, which was a hell of a lot of money, actually, and much more than I deserved. But seven thousand dollars for anything was ruinous, so I had to beg the store manager to take everything back (with a ten-per-cent restocking fee, plus delivery), and then I cut up her charge cards and took away her bankbook and started giving her the minimum cash allowance for the week’s groceries and gas. As you can imagine, Daisy wasn’t exactly pleased with the arrangement. It was a suggestion from Pop, whom I hadn’t consulted directly but who had overheard my mother telling her sister what Daisy had done. The next day, Pop barrelled in to the messy office we shared at the shop and plunked his backside onto my desk blotter and asked me what the hell I was doing. I had no clue what he was talking about, and as usual in those days I stared up at him with my mouth half crooked, absently probing my upper molars with my tongue. “I’m talking about Daisy,” he growled, as if he were the one who had married her, as if he were the one having trouble. I should mention that Pop had always adored Daisy. From the second he met her it was clear—he could never stop talking about how gorgeous she was and how sexy, and whenever they met he’d corral her with a big hug and a kiss and then he’d twirl her in a little cha-cha move, all of which Daisy welcomed and played into as if she were Audrey Hepburn in “Roman Holiday,” which was just the kind of humoring and ass-kissing that my father has always lived for and measured everyone by. “I hear she went on a spree at the department store and damn near bankrupted you.” “Not near,” I said. “It was seven grand.” “Holy Jesus.” “But it’s fixed now. I made it go away.” “Damn it, Jerome, it’s just going to happen again! Don’t you know how to handle your wife yet?” “I think I’ve learned something in these last eight years, yes.” “Bullshit. Listen to me. Are you listening, Jerome? This is what I’m telling you. You have to squash her every once in a while—I mean, completely flatten her. Otherwise a beautiful woman like Daisy gets big ideas, and those ideas get bigger every year. If she were a plain sedan like your mother you wouldn’t have to worry, you’ve only got to deal with a certain displacement, you know what I mean? But with a sleek machine you’ve got to tool a governor onto the sucker, do something to cut her fuel.” “I have no idea what you’re talking about, Pop.” “What I’m saying is you’ve got to be a little brutal. Not always, just every once in a while. Now is a good time. All this women’s libbing and bra burning is confusing everybody. Treat her badly, don’t give her any money or attention or even a chance to bitch or argue. Don’t let her leave the house for a week. Then when she’s really down in the dumps bring her some diamond earrings or a tennis bracelet and take her out to a lobster dinner. After, screw her brains out, or whatever you can manage. Then everything will go back to normal, you’ll see.” “And how do you know any of this works, if Ma isn’t that kind of woman?” “Trust your pop, Jerome. I have wide experience. And if that doesn’t do it, call Dr. Derricone.” “Yeah, yeah, yeah,” I must have said, to get him off my desk and case. But that night when I got home Daisy was undertaking an overhaul of our house; she was going through a couple of hundred fabric swatches that were piled on the kitchen table, along with several china and silver patterns, and some odd squares of linoleum and porcelain floor tile; she had even begun painting the dining and living rooms with sample swaths of paint, quart cans of which sat out opened, used brushes lying across the rims. For dinner she was heating up some leftover pasta on the stove. In the den the kids were watching TV, rolling popcorn in bologna slices as a pre-dinner snack, and then spitting streams of Dr Pepper at each other through the gaps in their front teeth. When I asked Daisy what the heck was going on, she looked up and answered that she couldn’t decide between a shiny or a not-so-shiny silk for the living-room curtains and what did I think? She was grinning, though painfully, as if part of her could see and hear the miserable scene and could understand that another part was taking over. I couldn’t holler right then as I wanted to, and instead just grumbled, “Whatever, dear,” and went to the bedroom and stripped out of my dusty work clothes and turned on the water in the shower as hot as I could bear, because there’s nothing like a good near-scald to set you right again, to take you out of a time line and set you momentarily free. And suddenly I was even feeling a little chubby down there with the hot trickles in my crack and so gave myself a couple of exploratory tugs, when Daisy opened the shower door and stepped inside, paint-splattered clothes and all. “Jerry,” she said, crying, through the billowing steam. “Jerry, I’m sorry.” I didn’t answer and she said it again, said my name again, with her rolling, singsong, messed-up “R”s, and I hugged her, clutching her beneath the spray. “So hot!” she gasped, recoiling, and I let go, but she grabbed back and held me tight, tighter and tighter, until she got used to the temperature. Then she kissed me, and kissed me again, and when I kissed her back I thought I was tasting something mineral, like thinner or paint, but when we broke for air I could see the faded wash of pink on her chin, on her mouth: she’d bitten her tongue trying to stand the hot water. I pointed the showerhead away from us and she took off her wet clothes and said, “Make love to me,” and we started to screw on the built-in bench of the shower stall, something we hadn’t done since we first bought the house, before Jack was born. I remember Daisy being five months pregnant and showing in a way I hadn’t expected would be so attractive, the smooth, sheened bulge of her belly and her popped-out belly button and the changed size and color of her nipples, long like the nipples on baby bottles and the color of dark caramels. Daisy was not voluptuous, which I liked, with her long, lean torso and shortish Asian legs (perfectly hairless) and her breasts that were shaped in the form of gently pitched dunes, these delicate pale hillocks. I realize I may be waxing pathetic here, your basic sorry white dude afflicted with what Theresa nowadays refers to as “Saigon syndrome” (“Me so hor-ny, G.I. Joe!”), but I’m not really sorry, because the fact is I found her desirable precisely because she was put together differently from what I was used to, as it were; she was totally unlike the wide-hipped Italian or leggy Irish girls or the broad-bottomed Polish chicks from Our Lady of Wherever I had been raised on since youth and who, compared with Daisy, seemed pretty dreadful contraptions. Unfair, I know, unfair. Though that evening in the shower, eight years into our marriage, I wasn’t so much enamored of Daisy as I was hopeful for any break in her strange mood. I thought (or so I thought later) that some good coarse sex might disturb the disturbance, shunt aside the offending system, and it might have worked had our little Theresa not opened the shower door and stood watching for God knows how long as I was engaging her mother in the doggie-style stance we tended to employ when things between us weren’t perfectly fine. Daisy must have peered around and seen Theresa standing there sucking on her thumb and shoved me off so hard I slipped and fell onto my back, providing a second sighting of me that made Theresa actually step back. I covered myself and asked her what she wanted and she couldn’t answer and then Daisy yelled at her to tell us. Theresa said, “The macaroni is on fire, and Jack can’t put it out.” “Take care of her!” I said to Daisy, and then grabbed a towel to wrap myself with and ran down to the kitchen, where Jack was tossing handfuls of water at the frying pan as it roared up in flames. The steam and smoke were pooling at the ceiling, and, as I pulled Jack away into the dining room, he fought me a little, trying to go back. “Dad, it’s burning the metal,” he said, pointing to the steel hood above the stove, its painted surface blackening. “Stay right here,” I told him, tamping down on his shoulders. “O.K.?” I rushed in and opened the bottom drawer of the stove, where Daisy kept the pot lids, searching for one large enough to cover the big skillet. I found one and tossed it on, but it was about an inch shy all around and the flames flickered low only for a second, then leaped up again. Daisy always used a lot of butter or oil, and so I took off my bath towel and folded it and tried to smother the whole pan, the fire licking up where I wasn’t pressing hard enough, singeing my forearm and chest hairs and making me instantly consider all things from the narrow, terrified view of my fast-shrinking privates, and then Jack ran forward and tried to help by tugging down the edge of the towel. I picked him up and carried him to the living room and hurled him onto one of the as yet unreturned sofas, shouting “Stay put!” and also warning him not to soil the upholstery, if he valued his life. But by then the towel had caught fire and instinctively I did what Jack had already tried, splashing on water with my hands and then with a coffee mug, which did no good at all. So I finally took the skillet by the handle and opened the sliding door to the deck and stepped out. The firelight caught the attention of our back neighbors, the Lipschers, who were throwing a small dinner party on their patio. I’d spoken to the husband maybe once or twice, the wife three or four times; we’d invited them over a couple of times for barbecues but they’d never made it. They were into tony Manhattan-type gatherings, with candles and French wine and testy, clever conversation (you could hear every word from our deck) about Broadway plays or Israel or their favorite Caribbean islands, everyone constantly interrupting everyone else in their bid to impress one another, all in tones that said they weren’t. But the sight of me clearly got their attention. Someone at the table said “Look at that!” and with the skillet in one hand I waved with the other, the Lipschers and their guests limply waving back. For some reason it didn’t seem neighborly to chuck the frying pan, so I held it out in full flambé, Daisy now stepping out in her towel with the kids in tow, all of us waiting for the fire to die out. It took a while. When it finally did, Barry Lipscher said, “Hey there, Battle, you want to end the show now? We’re still eating here, if you don’t mind.” To this Daisy unhooked her bath sheet and wrapped it around my waist, then turned to the Lipschers and their guests in all her foxy loveliness and gave them the finger. If I remember right, Theresa did the same, Jack and I grinning idiotically as we trailed our women into the house. But in truth, I’m afraid, it didn’t quite end up as nicely as all that—young family Battle triumphant in solidarity, chuckling over the charred cabinetry and the toasty scent of burned pasta. “Clean this up,” I said to Daisy, my voice nothing but a cold instrument. “We’ll talk tomorrow.” The next day, I instituted what Pop had suggested, basically placing Daisy under house arrest for the week (no car keys, no credit cards, twenty dollars cash), and promising her that I’d never speak to her again unless she sent back all the samples and swatches and kept the house in an acceptable state and made proper meals for the kids and checked with me from that point on before she bought anything—I mean anything—other than staples like milk and bread or underwear or school supplies. In those days I could threaten someone like that. I had got into the habit at Battle Brothers, hollering at the fellas all day and lecturing my subcontractors and even talking tough to my customers, if they got to be too clingy or whiny or just plain pains in the ass, which at some point in every job they all did. But maybe it wasn’t so much the habit itself as it was its effectiveness that I kept returning to—how I could reliably get all sorts of people to move it or jump or shut the hell up. People say that I’m like Pop that way, that I’ll get this expression on my face, as if whatever you’re saying or doing is this crime, and that for you not to desist would be the most contemptible of acts. And then I’ll say what I want to have happen, what I want done, as I did that morning to Daisy. She could hardly look at me as she sat on the toilet while I shaved, her straight hair screening her face like those beaded curtains we all used to have. I repeated myself, then left for work and didn’t call home all day. I wanted to call but I held firm, even as I imagined a disaster like a flood in the basement or an electrical fire. But it was one of those times as a husband when you have to decline the counsel of sound judgment and valor and gut-piercing panics and yield instead to the matchless attraction of simply making your damn point. To Daisy, the point was this: I’m leaving it to you, babe, and you alone. Daisy’s sense of fearless self-reliance was partly, I suppose, why I was so taken with her to begin with. She’d come to the States by herself, just twenty years old, going to school and living not in a dormitory or in one of those single- women’s residences but in an apartment in a needle-littered Harlem tenement with some post-Marxist black-chick Ph.D. with a last name like Weiss, the cultural compaction of which really blew my mind. I couldn’t imagine what Daisy’s parents thought about any of this, and I never found out. They were seminarians, I guess, but for one reason or another she rarely talked about them, and during our years together I didn’t prod her to say much more about them or the rest of her family in Korea. She never seemed to mind. All I knew was that of four or five children she probably wasn’t the favorite, and that the only person from her family to show up for our wedding was an older brother with a pinched-up face who didn’t smile or say a word during the rehearsal dinner and hotly scolded her afterward in the parking lot, I’m sure for marrying a white guy. He was also tugging on her arm in a way that I didn’t like, and I ended up having to push him a bit too hard against his taxi to get him to release her. He cursed me and cursed Daisy and then they cursed each other for what seemed like five minutes, all this spiky language hurtling back and forth, until finally she laid into him with some choice American swear words and he relented, muffling his ears as he got into the taxi. He wasn’t at the ceremony the next day, and I don’t think Daisy even noticed. When I got home from work, the place wasn’t on fire and there were no ambulances parked on the lawn. I rolled my pickup inside the garage and went in. The house was peerlessly clean and quiet and the kids were in the den playing and there was a tuna casserole bubbling away in the oven, four place settings sparkling on the kitchen table. The only thing missing was Daisy. I asked the kids where she was and they didn’t know. I looked out back and in the street. Then I went to our bedroom, which was empty but neat, and when I walked into the bathroom there Daisy was, still dressed in her pink robe with baby-blue piping, sitting on the edge of the toilet exactly as she had been eight hours earlier, as if she’d been cast right into the cool porcelain. “I fixed the house,” she said, her voice husky, dried out. “Yeah,” I said, just as I might to the guys, as though it were no more than I’d expected. It’s always best, when you’re trying to get things done, to utter the absolute minimum. You made it rain? O.K. You moved heaven and earth? Fine. Pop was the one who showed me how effective it can be to say grindingly little at the very moments when you ought to say a lot, when you could easily be generous with praise or forgiveness, when you could tender all you had and no one would ask for anything extra in return. I know. I know about this. I do. So when Daisy went on to say, “The other stuff, too. I got rid of it all. I did what you want, Jerry,” what did I say back but simply, “Right,” with a slight tip of the head, and a tough-guy grunt, which you’d think would be just what Daisy had had to deal with all her inscrutable Oriental life, and probably had, and was likely part of the reason she’d ended up with someone like me, some average American Guido she figured would have more than plenty to say, entreating her every second with his hands and his hips and with his heart bleeding all over. Daisy didn’t say anything and neither did I, and for a moment our normally cramped bathroom felt very large, the only sound coming from the running toilet tank, with its wasteful ever-wash that I’ve always meant to fix but never actually have fixed, even to this day. Daisy got up then and brushed past me and I could hear her walk out of our bedroom and down the hallway to the kitchen. I showered and changed and when I got to the table the kids were eating their dinner, as usual furiously wolfing down their food like a pair of street urchins who’d broken into a cake shop. Daisy was preparing my plate. Jack and Theresa were forever hungry, and the only time I can remember them not eating was after Daisy was buried and we had a gathering at the house, the two of them sitting glumly on the sofa, a plate of cold shrimp and capicola balanced between them on their legs. Daisy set down my dinner, and she sat, too, but she wasn’t eating. After serving all of us seconds, she took our plates and began cleaning up. The kids chattered but Daisy and I didn’t say a word to each other. Breakfast the next morning was the same, and it was like that for the rest of that week and the week after that. Finally, I got tired of the whole thing, and when Pop asked I told him that his method was fine except for the rageful misery and silences. He told me to keep it in my pants a bit longer, that I’d break her and also break myself of “the need to please her all the time,” and that he and Ma would stop by on Saturday to run interference. I asked him to come over and play with the kids, so I could patch things up with Daisy, perhaps take a drive to Robert Moses and sit on the grassy dunes and tell her that I wished for our life to be normal again, though in truth the visit would mean that Ma would take the kids out to the playground or to a matinée and then somehow cobble together a gut-busting dinner of meatballs and sausages and pasta and a roast, with Pop haranguing me about the state of our business and then inevitably bringing up Bobby. When my parents arrived, Daisy was still in the bedroom getting dressed. No matter what her state of mind or what was going on, she always pulled herself together for them, and particularly for Pop. She’d wear her newest outfit and full makeup, and Pop, of course, lapped it up. He loved how she made silly mistakes in English and always laughed at his jokes and listened to his autodidact’s crank theories and opinions about the brutality of man and the falsity of religion and the conspiring forces of a new world order that would enslave all good men in a socialist vise-grip of eco-feminism and bisexuality and miscegenation (notwithstanding my and Daisy’s lovely offspring). No one but Pop could elicit that kind of humoring and attention from her, no one I’m sure except for Bobby Battle, M.I.A., whom she had never met but I know she would have loved. Daisy floated out in a new hot-pink-with-white-polka-dot silk minidress and a matching scarf tied around her throat, with a white hair band holding up her black hair. She kissed my mother, who was already unloading from the fridge everything that we might possibly eat for dinner, culling as she went for mold and wilt and freezer burn. My mother was nothing if not dependable. It’s a terrible thing to admit, but I used to think she wasn’t the swiftest doe in the forest, because she rarely did anything but keep house and feed everybody and try to make Pop’s life run smoothly and comfortably, even when he had several affairs and was universally acknowledged to be a Hall of Fame pain in the ass. She rarely read the newspaper and never read a book and wasn’t even interested in movies or television; her main personal activity was shopping for clothes, always in a combination of Queens Boulevard and country-club styles, bright bold colors and white patent-leather bags and shoes and bug-eye sunglasses. Every once in a while, on no special occasion, Pop would spring for a marble-size diamond ring or a string of fat pearls, and I suspect it was my mother exacting tribute for his latest exposed dalliance. Lately I’ve been thinking that her lack was more emotional than intellectual; she preferred to keep her life as uncomplicated as possible, and understood that more thought would lead only to misery, to the realization that she could never leave him, that she could never really start over again. Daisy twirled for my father and said, “What you think, Pop?” “Gorgeous, doll, gorgeous.” Pop used “doll” whenever they were together, “your old lady” or “your wife” when speaking about her to me. “I got it at Macy’s,” she said, hardly glancing over. “It wasn’t on sale price, but I couldn’t wait.” “On you, it’s a bargain at twice the price.” “You super guy, Pop.” “But I’m speechless at this moment,” he said, smiling his here’s-how-tohandle-a-woman smile. “As Santayana once said, ‘Beauty as we feel it is something indescribable: what it is or what it means can never be said.’ ” “You too much, Pop!” “Is this a liver or a beefsteak?” Ma said, holding up a frozen brown slab. No one answered, since no one knew. Ma, accustomed to the non-reply, said, “I hope it’s a beefsteak.” “The dress looks real good,” I said to Daisy, feeling I should say something. And then I was all set to offer more. I was going to suggest running her right out to the department store and buying a bauble to go with the pretty dress, some earrings maybe, when Pop pulled a long dark-blue velveteen jewelry case from his pocket and presented it to Daisy. “For me?” “Of course it’s for you, doll. Open it.” She cracked the lid. It was a string of freshwater pearls, the beads small but delicate and dazzling in their iridescence. It was amazingly tasteful, even for Pop, who always surprised me with his eye for finish and detail. “Look, Jerry, look what Pop got!” Daisy said. “A customer of mine imports these from Japan, and he gave me a nice rate on them. They’re just as good as Mikimoto.” “It’s not my birthday even,” Daisy said, hushed by the glitter in her hands. “This is so nice.” “Call it a reward, for all the hardship of the last couple of weeks. Ask Ma over there. It’s no picnic, putting up with us Battle men. We’re stubborn and proud and we ask no less than the world of our women. The world. Your husband Jerome here is no different. We all know he can be sullen, but that’s because he’s always been too serious. Not like Bobby, who knows what real fun is. He’s just like you. So you better learn patience, with this one.” Pop tousled my hair, and I let him, because incredulity freezes you, because I was like that back then, because Pop was Pop and I wasn’t. Daisy was the one who stopped him, if only because she was hugging him, kissing him on the forehead and cheek, hooting a little, almost vibrating with glee and gratitude. Ma had already ceased paying further attention to the scene, and had gone back to the daily calculus of how to make a meal from what was at hand. The kids ran in from outside and Pop had a handful of hard candies for them, toffees and sours and butterscotches. This was the minor parade my father always finessed for himself, wherever he went: my wife and kids joyous with the old man. I asked Ma if she needed anything. “I don’t think so, honey,” she said. She was scraping the brown rime from the frozen meat, a little pile of root-beer-colored shavings collecting at the edge of her knife blade. “I think I have everything I need.” In the weeks after Pop came bearing gifts, everything pretty much went to shit. It did, it really did, though not in the manner I’d thought it would. I figured I’d be the one generating the enmity. I thought Pop’s stunt (which I should have been ready for) and Daisy’s giddy celebrations would lend me the pissy high ground, at least for a few days, long enough to keep Daisy on the defensive and not out there spending our future, long enough to allow me to figure out how to fix the problem without forever placing her under house arrest. But Daisy was the one who took umbrage. She wouldn’t speak to me, her silence made much more unpleasant by the fact that she seemed livelier and brighter in her dealings with everyone else. Did the time mark a strange kind of renaissance for her? I really don’t know. What’s clear to me is that Daisy pretty much exploded with life, and our life exploded right along with her. Up to then, my basic conception of crazy was the one I’d held since youth: the picture of a raven-haired Irish girl named Clara who climbed the trees in her pleated Catholic-school skirt not wearing underwear and lobbed Emily Dickinson down to me in a wraithlike voice (“I cannot live with You— It would be Life—and Life is over there—Behind the Shelf”), my trousers clingy with fear and arousal. With Daisy, neither I nor anyone else, not even Dr. Derricone, knew the extent of her troubles, the ornate reach and complication. Those initial shopping sprees would in the end seem like the smallest indiscretions—filched candy from the drugstore, a lingering ass pat at a neighborhood cocktail party—nothing you couldn’t slough off with a laugh, nothing you couldn’t later recall with some wistful fondness. After that weekend when she stopped talking to me, Daisy’s metabolism went into overdrive. We usually went to bed at eleven or so, but she started getting up at five in the morning, and then four and three and two, until it got to the point where she didn’t even get ready for bed, not bothering to change into a nightgown or brush her teeth. A couple of times in the middle of the night I awoke to the plash-plash of water, and peered through the curtains to see, in lovely silhouette, Daisy paddling around in the pool with the inner tube hooped beneath her arms. She was naked, just going back and forth, and I had the thought that I should go out there and keep her company. But I desperately needed my sleep back then (these days it’s a different story, as I lie in wait for the muted thwap of the morning paper on the driveway) and, rather than get up, I would fall back into the pillow and scratch at myself half-mast and maybe dream in sentimental hues of gorgeous black swans who always swim alone. After a couple of weeks, I didn’t even notice that Daisy was never in bed. She probably slept a few hours while the kids were in school, but I can’t be sure of that. As for sex, it wasn’t happening, and not only because she wasn’t talking to me. Pure talk was never that important to us anyway, even at the beginning, when we were mostly joking and flirting, for though her English was more than passable it was rudimentary enough for us to stay clear of nuanced discussions, which suited me fine. The truth was that while I was hungering for her I had an equally keen desire to hold out as long as I could, because if she had any power over me it was sexual power, which, most other things being equal, is what all women should easily have over all men. Daisy could always, please forgive me, float my boat, top my prop; she could always crank up the generators at any moment and make me feel as if every last cell in my body were overjuiced and soon to be derelict if not immediately launched toward something warm and soft. In her own way she was a performer, as they say actors can be when they enter a room; something in them switches on and suddenly everybody is abject with confused misery and love. One night the doorbell rang and roused me from a deep sleep and I opened the door to find my wife wrapped in a big blue poly tarp with a burly young police officer standing behind her, waving a long flashlight. “Are you the head of this household, sir?” he asked, momentarily blinding me with the beam, and fully waking me up. “You wanna kill the light, chief?” “Sorry, sir,” he said, slipping the flashlight into his belt. “Are you the head of household?” “If you mean am I the owner, then yes.” “Is this your wife?” I looked at Daisy, who looked glum, as though this were yet another chore of her unglamorous life. “Yes. She’s my wife.” “She was at the elementary school, in the playground there. There was a complaint.” “What? Is it illegal, to be over there?” “I believe there’s a school-grounds curfew, sir, but that wasn’t the whole problem.” “Oh, yeah?” Daisy then said, “Just cut it out, Jerry. Good night, officer. Thanks for the ride home.” She tippy-toed and pecked him on the cheek, and then stepped inside. “Oh, this is yours.” She peeled the tarp from herself and handed it to him. She was wearing only sneakers, white Keds with the blue pencil stripe on the rubber. The young cop thanked her and said good night, as if it were a goddam date or something. Daisy disappeared inside. The cop said, “Sir, if you could please tell your wife I’ll have to cite her the next time.” “There’s not going to be a goddam next time!” “I’m just saying—” “Good night,” I said, and slammed the door. I found Daisy in the kitchen, making egg salad for a sandwich. She had the eggs going at a furious boil in the stockpot, and the bread in the toaster; she had jars of mayonnaise and mustard and sweet-pickle relish out on the counter, celery and carrot and onion on the cutting board, and she had the ice-blue German chef’s knife in her hand, the one that Pop had given her for Christmas. But the strange thing was that it was all so casual, as if a nude woman in sneakers chopping vegetables at three in the morning after a neighborhood police sweep were de rigueur around here, our customary midsummer night’s dream. “What the hell are you doing?” “I’m hungry. You want to eat, too?” “No, I don’t.” “You have trouble sleeping?” “What do you think, Daisy?” She didn’t answer, engrossed as she was in the julienned stalks of carrot and celery. She was working carefully but fast, making perfect dices as she went, the crisp chock-chock-chock of the blade on the cutting board undoubtedly keeping time with her ever-quickening synaptic pulses. I didn’t want to disturb her; I was going to wait until she was done, but perhaps it was because of my state of angry half sleep or the searingly bright fluorescent kitchen lights or the notion of my supple-bodied immigrant wife tooling around in a squad car with a wide-eyed cop that I had to holler, “This is total shit!” She looked around with unfeigned gravity and said, “Go back to sleep, Jerry.” “This is going to stop,” I said. “You’re going to see Dr. Derricone tomorrow. I’ll go with you.” “Go to sleep, Jerry.” “You’re going to see him about this, and I mean it this time. No ranting at him. No threats. No scenes with his receptionist.” “He’s a complete fool,” she said, with a perfect, faintly English accent, as if she’d heard some actress say the phrase in a TV movie or on a soap. Daisy was a talented mimic, when she wanted to be. “They are all complete and utter fools.” “I don’t care if you think he’s the King of Siam. Dr. Derricone has been around a long time and you’ll show him respect. He’s seen it all and he’s going to help you.” “I don’t want help from him, or nobody!” she cried, confusingly, though of course I knew what she meant. “That’s it, now, Daisy! I mean it. I’ve had enough!” “Me, too!” she shouted, and I thought about the kids for a second, how they’d wake up to their mother’s distressed cry and probably think I was doing something horrible to her, which I never ever did. Although in those days I let myself think about such things every now and then. I imagined picking up her petite body and flinging her onto the bed as you might a cat, mostly because I thought that she could handle it, and that the ugly pleasurable surge would somehow satisfy the moment and make everything good and right. Spoken like a veritable wife beater, I realize, and I can’t defend myself, except to say that Daisy was never a completely passive party in our troubles. She was ready to say or do whatever it took to make me feel the afflictions settled so insolvently within her. “Quiet down,” I told her. “You’ll wake up the kids.” “I don’t care!” she cried, and that’s when it happened. She lunged at me, in her splendid nakedness, knife and all, her eyes dull with the chill of empty space. And I froze, not so much with fear (of which there was plenty) as with a kind of abstention, for the horror of what was happening was too realistic to even begin to consider fright. And the significant detail is not that Daisy missed my throat with the chef’s knife by a mere thumb’s width, jabbing the point a good two inches into the door of the refrigerator (the perfect slit is still there, rusty around the pushed-in edges), but that when we both fully returned to the moment, our faces almost touching, we each saw in the other the same amazing wish that she hadn’t flinched. Not that I didn’t want to live. I did want to live, just not that way. Daisy, suddenly scared out of her craziness, broke down and collapsed in a naked heap on the linoleum floor, crying her eyes out. So with the first light Dr. Derricone appeared with his scuffed black bag and before the kids were even awake he gave Daisy a sample bottle of Valium with instructions to keep taking them as long as she felt, as he put it, “too frisky.” I don’t know what a trained specialist would have said, what a psychiatrist or psychologist would have diagnosed as her particular state or behavior; I wasn’t even thinking of “the right thing to do.” I just needed to jam hard on the brakes, to do whatever it took to stop the train. Frank Derricone was Ma and Pop’s doctor; he’d delivered me and Bobby and dozens of my cousins and nephews and then Jack and Theresa. He was indeed a general practitioner of the grand old school, in that he believed that good doctoring, as in most professions, was a matter of common sense, empirically applied. This salty view had no doubt served him well for the thirty years up to that point, and continued to do so for the twenty-five or so more years afterward, and I don’t doubt that Daisy was among only a handful of his patients who didn’t end up healthy and long-lived. And while I don’t blame Frank Derricone in the least—I’m not the one who can, at least not in any scenario or space-time continuum or alternative universe I can come up with—I do wonder what might have been, and I can’t ignore what the doctor said to me at a party in honor of his retirement this past spring, when he mentioned that it probably wasn’t the best thing to have kept Daisy on sedatives after she’d come down from her manic heights. For who really imagined that there could be a state grayer than gray for our mad happy Daisy, lower than low, when suddenly it was all she could do to lift herself out of the bed in the morning and drag a brush through her tangled, unwashed hair? Who knew that while I was at work and the kids were at day camp she’d steadily medicate herself on the back patio with Valiums and a case of beer, and on one stifling summer afternoon in August go so far as to induce herself into a dream of buoyancy, such that she, unclothed as she preferred, drifted floatless into the pool, perhaps paddling a calm yard or two, before flying, like a seabird, straight down to the bottom. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Broccoli	“Here’s another one, seduced and abandoned,” Nina’s husband often said, pulling a bunch of wilted, yellowed broccoli from the refrigerator shelf. He held it, pinched between two fingers, his handsome face contorted in disgust, as though it smelled. Nina, blushing, took the broccoli away from him and threw it in the garbage. She told him she was sorry; she had been busy all week and never had time to cook. Nina worked in Manhattan. By the time she got home to Brooklyn, it was already seven-thirty, sometimes eight, and the most she could do was make her husband and herself sandwiches, or boil some meat dumplings from a Russian supermarket. “I know,” her husband said. “But why buy all these vegetables if you know you won’t have time to cook them?” Nina shrugged. She liked shopping for vegetables. She couldn’t say exactly when she’d first felt the urge—possibly two years earlier, on her second day in America, when she and her husband had left her sister’s Brooklyn apartment for the first time to explore the nearest shopping street. Nina’s sister, who’d lived in America for fourteen years and called herself an American, assumed that Nina would be impatient to see it. “Go, go,” she said. “But don’t buy anything. There are two rules you have to remember in order to survive in America. First: Never buy anything in expensive stores unless they’re having a fifty-per-cent-off sale. Second: Never buy anything in cheap stores.” On the unimaginatively named Avenue M, Nina and her husband browsed through stores that all looked alike to them, no matter what was being sold: food, electronics, clothes, or hardware. They seemed to be walking in and out of the same store over and over, simply to hear the doorbell chime. It was a pale, cold February morning, and Nina was hiding her reddened nose in the fur collar of her Russian coat. She clutched her husband’s elbow, stepping carefully over piles of garbage, reluctant to look up at the ashen sky or sideways at the motley signs of the shops. She was feeling dizzy and a little nauseated from the flight and the all-night talk with her sister that had followed. Only one store attracted her attention—a small Chinese grocery, with fruit and vegetables set outside on plywood stands. Colorful piles of oranges, tomatoes, cucumbers—everything was sparklingly clean and bright. Nina read the side of the box of tomatoes: “Sunripe.” She was still learning English, and every new expression seemed to her exciting and rich with meaning. “Sunripe” brought to mind a vegetable patch on a summer afternoon, the smell of dark soil heated by the sun, pale-green stems bent and bursting under the weight of juicy tomatoes. She wanted to touch the tomatoes in the box to see if their skin was still warm from the sun that shone on them as they ripened. She was just reaching out her hand when her husband pulled her away to another store. Now Nina shopped for vegetables alone every Saturday morning—her husband loved to sleep late on weekends. She drove to Eighty-sixth Street and shopped in the Chinese and Russian stores between Bay Parkway and Twenty-third Avenue. The stores all offered pretty much the same selection of produce, but Nina liked to explore them all, in search of something surprising: the occasional white asparagus, plastic baskets of gooseberries, tiny, nutlike new potatoes. On the days when there was nothing new, it was still interesting to compare the stores. In one, the onions might be large and firm but the heads of lettuce wilted and colorless. Another might have the freshest greens and onions that were soft and gray, hiding timidly in string bags. Nina felt a thrill as soon she got out of the car and placed her feet on the sidewalk, littered with torn lettuce leaves, onion peels, and overripe tomatoes. In the stores, she walked up and down the aisles, running her fingers over tomatoes as smooth and glossy as polished furniture. She cupped avocados, feeling their lumpy peel with her palms. Sometimes she dug a fingernail into the rind of an orange until it spat out a little of its pungent juice. She avoided touching the hairy, egg-shaped kiwis and the wormlike string beans, but she liked to stroke the feathery bunches of dill and parsley and squeeze the artichokes, which felt like soft pine cones. She patted cantaloupes and she tapped watermelons with her index finger, listening to the hollow sound they made. But, most of all, Nina loved broccoli. It smelled of young spring grass, and it looked like a tree, with its hard solid stem and its luxuriant crown of tight, grainy florets. Nina bought a bunch of broccoli every week, along with various other vegetables. She carried big brown bags to her car, firmly believing that this weekend she would find time to cook. There was still Saturday afternoon ahead, and then all of Sunday. She would wash the vegetables as soon as she got home and then cook something with them—spinach gnocchi, maybe, or grilled zucchini parcels, or three-cheese broccoli gratin. But as soon as she got home Nina found herself in a whirl of things to do. She had to shower, curl her hair, brush it out if it started to go frizzy, try on and reject several sweaters and pairs of pants, put on makeup, find her husband’s missing sock, iron his shirt, check that the gas was off, and lock the door. It seemed only minutes before she found herself in the car again, on the way to a party, glancing back and forth between her husband in the driver’s seat and her own reflection in the mirror on the sun visor. Her husband was deep in his thoughts, which was natural, Nina told herself, since he was driving. And her reflection was unsatisfying—despite her efforts, her hair was still frizzy, her soft-featured, round face was poorly made up, and her blue angora sweater was too tight around the armpits. Clothes bought at fifty-per-cent-off sales were always either the wrong size or the wrong style. In the car, Nina rarely thought about her vegetables. They lay abandoned on the cramped refrigerator shelves: tomatoes buried under zucchinis, lettuce leaves caught in the edge of the vegetable drawer, a bunch of broccoli that wouldn’t fit in the drawer sitting by itself on the third shelf. The parties were thrown by Pavlik, a friend of Nina’s husband from work, whose wife had divorced him a few years earlier. Pavlik was a heavy man with an uneven ginger-colored beard. He wore ill-fitting trousers and shirts that never seemed clean. He loved to laugh heartily and smack his friends on the back. “Don’t mind the mess!” he yelled as his guests wandered through the dusty labyrinth of his house, stumbling over secondhand furniture, broken electronic equipment, and heavy volumes of Russian literature. It seemed to Nina that Pavlik’s functions as a host were limited to calling out that phrase. He didn’t feed or entertain his guests. People arrived with their own food and wine, their own plastic dinnerware, their own guitars, and sometimes their own poems, written on scraps of notebook paper. None of Pavlik’s guests were professional poets or musicians. Most of them worked as computer programmers, an occupation that they had taken up in America, where they found it easier and more profitable than trying to prove the value of their Russian degrees in science or the arts. Some of them, Nina’s husband included, adopted a condescending attitude toward their new profession: it was boring; it was beneath them. “Computer programming, like everyone else,” they answered reluctantly when asked their occupation, “but that’s not what I did in my previous life.” They preferred to talk about art or music or such exciting hobbies as alpinism, rafting, and photographing Alaskan sunsets. Nina was a computer programmer, too, but she had always been a computer programmer. She didn’t know much about poetry or music, and she didn’t have any exciting talents or hobbies. “My wife is a vegetable lover,” Nina’s husband would say, introducing her to Pavlik’s circle. Nina didn’t like Pavlik’s guests. The men were untidy and unattractive. They loaded their paper plates with cold cuts and smoked too much. They said the same things over and over, and it seemed to Nina that there was always a piece of ham or salami hanging out of their mouths when they talked. The women, with one or two exceptions, were attractive, but in an unpleasant way. They were thin and sophisticated; they had straight hair; they had strong hands with long, powerful fingers, toughened by playing piano or guitar; they had soulful eyes, saddened by all the poetry they’d read; they had mysterious expressions of eternal fatigue. They had everything that Nina lacked. Nina usually spent the evening in one corner of Pavlik’s stiff sofa, away from her husband and the other guests, who sat on the floor by the cold fireplace. The sound of their laughter, their singing, and their reading floated around the room, but didn’t seem to reach Nina. The food and wine, arranged on a rickety folding table by the window, were more accessible. She made frequent trips to that table, where the cold cuts were spread out on paper plates, loaves of bread sat on cutting boards, and pickles swam in glass jars. There were usually a few unopened bottles of vodka and a five-litre box of Burgundy or Chablis. The wine dripped from a little plastic faucet onto the beige carpet, forming intricate patterns, so that by the end of the party Pavlik’s modest floor covering looked like a fancy Turkish rug. When Nina and her husband first started coming to Pavlik’s parties, she had joined the others by the fireplace. She’d loved to sit across from her husband and watch his face as he played the guitar. His head tilted forward, and the bangs of his dark hair fell to his half-closed eyes. From time to time, he glanced at her, and his eyes flickered through the forest of his hair like two fireflies. At those moments, Nina felt that he was playing for her alone, and the music touched her, making her skin prickle and her throat hurt. With time, though, Nina noticed that she wasn’t the only person watching her husband as he played. Other women watched, too, and in exactly the same way. Nina saw how their faces lit up under his fleeting gaze, just as hers did. Those women probably felt that he was playing for them, too, and sometimes Nina thought that they had more right to be played for by her husband than she did. When they looked over at Nina, she felt as if she were expanding, bloating, metamorphosing into an oversized exhibit of a dull, talentless woman with the wrong clothes and the wrong makeup. She knew that they were all asking themselves why this interesting, talented man had married her. Her sister didn’t ask. “You were his ticket to America,” she reminded Nina frequently. “Can you disprove that?” Nina couldn’t. It was true that her husband had always wanted to emigrate but, without close relatives in the United States, hadn’t been able to obtain a visa. It was true that, having married Nina, he had got his visa. It was true that Nina hadn’t wanted to emigrate but had yielded to her husband’s wishes. It wasn’t true, though, that he had married Nina for those reasons alone, and it wasn’t true that he didn’t love her. Nina’s sister didn’t know what Nina knew. She didn’t know that when Nina had been in the hospital with appendicitis her husband hadn’t left her room for even a minute. She had begged him to go and get some coffee or a breath of fresh air, but he had stayed with her. He’d held Nina’s hand and squeezed it involuntarily every time she moaned. Nina’s sister also didn’t know how he’d sometimes hug Nina from behind and bury his face in her hair and whisper, “There is nothing like this. Nothing in the world.” She could feel his sharp nose and his hot breath on the nape of her neck, and her eyes filled with tears. Nina’s sister didn’t know that he often said the same words when they were making love. It was a relief to come home after the parties and find herself in bed with a book, next to her husband. Nina’s nightstand was piled with cookbooks, bought at a fifty-per-cent discount at Barnes & Noble. She read lying on her back, resting the book on her stomach. The thick, glossy pages rustled against her satin nightgowns, bought at a fifty-per-cent-off sale at Victoria’s Secret. She loved that sound as much as she loved the prickly sensation on the soles of her feet when they brushed up against her husband’s hairy legs. And she loved the euphoric feeling she got when she looked at lustrous photographs of okra-and-tomato stew in rustic clay bowls, baskets of fresh vegetables shot against a background of meadows or olive groves. In her favorite book, “Italian Cuisine: The Taste of the Sun,” there were also images of the cooking process. In those photographs, smooth, light-skinned female hands with evenly trimmed fingernails performed magical actions on vegetables. The hands looked like Nina’s hands, and Nina fantasized that they were her hands. That it was she who had made those perfectly curled carrot strips. It was she who had pushed the stubborn stuffing inside the bell peppers. It was she who had rinsed the grit off the greens and chopped the broccoli, scattering tiny green seeds all over the table. Nina’s lips moved to form the almost passionate words of the cooking instructions. “Brush with olive oil,” “Bring to a boil and simmer gently,” “Scoop out the pulp,” “Peel,” “Chop,” “Slice,” “Crush.” When she put the book away and stretched out against her husband’s back, her lips continued moving for some time. Nina’s husband left her at the end of the summer, just as the tomatoes and the peaches were performing their yearly invasion of the fruit-and-vegetable stores on Eighty-sixth Street. Nina’s refrigerator was full of them when her sister opened it. “The fifth week is the worst,” Nina’s sister was saying. “The first four weeks it hasn’t sunk in yet—you feel the shock, but you don’t feel the pain. It’s like you’re numb. But the fifth week . . . Brace yourself for the fifth week.” She crouched by the refrigerator, unloading the food she had brought over. She had come to console Nina with four large bags from a Russian supermarket. Nina felt tired. She sat at the table, staring at her sister’s broad back. She was thinking that if you banged on it with a hammer it would produce a loud, reverberating sound, as if it were made of hard wood. The refrigerator shelves filled quickly: cartons of currant juice (“Currant juice saved my life—I basically lived on it when Volodya left me”), cream cheese, farmer’s cheese, soft cheese, Swiss cheese, bread, pickles, a jar of cherry compote. “Nina!” her sister shrieked. “What is that?” She had pulled out the vegetable drawer. Inside, there was a pile of old tomatoes, with white beards of mold growing in the places where their skins had split; there were peaches covered with brown spots; there were dark and slimy bunches of collard greens. “You’ve got a whole vegetable graveyard in here,” Nina’s sister grumbled, emptying the drawer into the garbage. The vegetables made squelching sounds as they landed. A faint rotten smell stayed in the kitchen for a long time after Nina’s sister had left. It wasn’t unpleasant. It was the simple, cozy smell of a kitchen, the smell of vegetable soup simmering on the stove, the kind that her mother used to make. Contrary to her sister’s prediction, the fifth week didn’t bring Nina any extreme pain. It only added to the fatigue. She felt as if she were recovering from a long, exhausting illness. She tried to do as few household chores as possible. She didn’t shop for vegetables anymore. She still read her cookbooks after work, but she was too tired to do much more than scan the index. She ran her finger over the smooth pages and neat columns of tiny letters. The austere phrases were logical and easy to read. “Broccoli: gratin—17; macaroni with—72; penne and—78.” She had no desire to look up the recipes. She just went on to the next entry. “Eggplant: braised chicken with onions and—137; and tomato, baked—162.” “Zucchini: and mushrooms, sautéed—34; shredded, jasmine rice with—201; soup—41; stuffed—57.” Pavlik’s booming voice on the answering machine broke into the elegant sequence of artichoke recipes. Nina had turned off the ringer on her phone weeks before, and now she listened to the messages as they came through her old scratchy answering machine. Most of them were from her sister, calling to ask if she was eating well and to tell her the latest news: that Nina’s husband had been spotted on Brighton Beach with some “dried herring,” that he was moving to Boston, that he had already moved. Nina’s sister’s voice seemed to her distant and somewhat unnatural. Pavlik’s voice made her jump. “Hey! Nina! Are you home?” he shouted. On impulse, Nina looked at the front door. It was hard to believe that the roaring was coming from the modest plastic box on the wall. Then Pavlik’s voice dropped too low, and it was hard to make out his words. “Don’t disappear,” he said, if Nina heard him correctly. Pavlik’s place looked different. Nina realized it as soon as she stepped into the living room, but she couldn’t quite figure out how it was different. The rickety table still stood on the stained rug, the fireplace was stacked with old magazines, Pavlik’s big frame was shaking with laughter, the vacant sofa was waiting for Nina. Everything was there, everything was in place, and yet something had undeniably changed. “The size—it’s become bigger,” Nina decided, taking her seat in the corner of the sofa. Pavlik’s house had more space and more air than it had had before. A thin, delicate woman with a guitar was singing something about a little path in the woods that meandered through the trees. Nina liked the song. When it ended, the singer put the guitar down and walked to the food table. She was wearing a long blue cardigan with drooping pockets. There was nothing mysterious about her. A man with receding hair and a closely trimmed gray beard took over the guitar. Nina’s eyes travelled from the man’s moving, outstretched elbow, protruding through his shabby corduroy sleeve, to his hunched shoulders and the greasy line of his hair. She suddenly understood that his untidiness wasn’t a kind of snobbish fashion statement but a sign of loneliness, of neglect. She saw that the women sitting in a circle were watching the man, just as they had watched her husband. They were tired, lonely women, just like her. There was nothing mysterious about them, either. Nina also noticed that she wasn’t the only one sitting outside the circle. In fact, there were only a few people in it. Others were scattered all around Pavlik’s house. She could see lonely figures here and there, sitting quietly on a chair, an old box, a windowsill, or wandering through the house. From time to time, the paths of the lonely figures intersected and then conversations were struck up. Awkward yet hopeful conversations, just like the one that Nina was having now. “You’re a vegetable lover, aren’t you?” asked a man who had seated himself in the opposite corner of Nina’s sofa. Nina nodded. “I thought I heard that from somebody. Do you like to cook vegetables?” Nina nodded again. “You know, I love vegetables, myself. My wife hates it when I cook, though.” The man rolled his eyes, making Nina smile. He was short, with thin rusty-red hair and a very pale complexion. He had a tiny piece of toilet paper with a spot of dried blood stuck to his cheek. “Are you a computer programmer like everyone else?” Nina asked. The man nodded with a smile. “And in your previous life?” “A high-school physics teacher. But I can’t say that I miss it. I used to be terrified of my students.” Nina laughed. He was easy to talk to. She looked at his smiling eyes, then down at his hands—white fingers, short fingernails, red hair on the knuckles. She tried to imagine what it would be like if one of these hands were to accidentally brush against her breast. Nina wiped the little beads of sweat off her nose. He was a strange, married, not particularly attractive man. “So what’s your favorite vegetable?” she asked. “Probably fennel. Fennel has an incredible flavor, reminds me of a wild apple and, oddly enough, freshly sawed wood. Do you like fennel?” Nina nodded. She liked fennel: it had a funny, slightly ribbed surface, it was heavy, it had weird green shoots that seemed to grow out of nowhere. Nina had never tasted fennel. “I like broccoli,” she said. “Oh, broccoli! I love how they cook it in Chinese places. How do you cook it?” The man with the piece of tissue stuck to his cheek looked safe enough to confide in. “I’ve never cooked broccoli, or any other vegetable,” Nina said. Nina spent the better part of the following Saturday shopping for cooking utensils. “Let’s have a cooking date,” the man from the party had suggested. A cooking date. Nina was sure that, at some point in the past, she had been as excited as she was now, but she couldn’t remember when. She went to Macy’s and, breaking the fifty-per-cent-discount rule for the first time, bought two drastically overpriced skillets, a set of shiny stainless-steel saucepans, a steamer, and a pretty wooden spoon with a carved handle. “Do you want wedding gift wrap?” the cashier asked. Halfway home, Nina realized that she hadn’t bought nearly enough. Knives! She needed knives, and a cutting board, and a colander, and God knew what else. She swerved her car in the direction of Avenue M, where, breaking the rule about never buying anything in the cheap stores, she bought a set of knives, two cutting boards—one wooden and one plastic—a colander, a curved grapefruit knife, because it looked so cute, a vegetable peeler, a set of stainless-steel bowls, and two aprons with pictures of wild mushrooms on yellow backgrounds. In a grocery store next door, Nina bought olive oil, black pepper, chili pepper, and a jar of dry dark-green stuff with Chinese characters on the label. By two-thirty—half an hour before the man was due to arrive—Nina had everything ready. The sparkling saucepans and the skillet stood proudly on the stove, and the bowls, the colander, the cutting boards, and the knives were arranged on the kitchen counter in careful disarray around the centerpiece: “Italian Cuisine: The Taste of the Sun.” Nina observed her kitchen, trying to shake off her embarrassing excess of excitement. The man came on time, early even. At five to three, he stood in Nina’s hallway, removing his bulky leather jacket and cap, sprinkled with raindrops. He smelled of wet leather. He handed Nina a bottle of wine and a baguette in a sodden paper bag. “In the movies, when a man hands a woman a baguette and a bottle of wine, it always seems chic, doesn’t it?” he asked. Nina nodded. He was more homely than she remembered. Her memory had somehow managed to erase the red spots on his pasty cheeks, to color his brows and eyelashes, to make him slimmer and add an inch or two to his height. It was strange to see him in her house, especially in her tiny hallway, where every object was familiar, its position carefully chosen. He clashed with the surroundings like a mismatched piece of furniture. Nina quickly led him into the kitchen. “So, are we cooking broccoli today?” the man asked, leafing through “Italian Cuisine: The Taste of the Sun,” his freshly washed hands still smelling of Nina’s soap. “Broccoli, yes,” Nina mumbled, suddenly struck by a dreadful suspicion, which she confirmed on opening the refrigerator. She had forgotten to buy the vegetables. She jerked out the vegetable drawer, hoping for a miracle. It was empty and clean, wiped down with a kitchen towel dipped in Clorox by Nina’s sister’s firm hand. There was only a tiny strip of onion skin stuck between the edge of the drawer and the shelf above. Nina turned to the man, motioning to the empty drawer; she found it hard to speak, as if someone were squeezing her throat. Everything seemed hopeless and ridiculous. The counter crammed with its gleaming kitchenware. The barren vegetable drawer. This perfect stranger, who had come to cook in her kitchen. Nina herself, her energy drained away, standing now with her forehead pressed to the cold rubber lining of the refrigerator door. “Do you want me to go to the supermarket?” the man asked. Nina shook her head. Now that everything had been exposed to her in all its absurdity, she knew that it would never work. A bunch of broccoli was stuck between the third shelf and the back of the refrigerator. It hung upside down, the florets nearly touching the shelf below. The man saw it first and pointed it out to Nina. The broccoli wasn’t yellow or covered with slime. During the weeks that it had hung between the shelves, it had become darker and dryer. In a few more weeks it would have become a broccoli mummy. It smelled all right—or, rather, it didn’t smell of anything. “I’m sure we can still cook it,” the man said. Nina ran cold water over the florets, then shook the bunch fiercely, letting out a shower of green drops. She chopped off the stem, then cut off the base of each floret, watching with fascination as each piece split into tiny new bunches of broccoli. She peeled the stem and cut it into even, star-shaped slices. Some things turned out to be different from her cooking fantasies, others exactly the same. Some were disappointing, others better than she had ever imagined. Then, when the broccoli was in the pot on the stove, boiling water sputtering under the saucepan’s shiny lid, the man suggested that Nina move one of her kitchen chairs closer to the stove and stand on it. “Climb up and inhale,” the man said. “The hot air travels up. The strongest aroma should be right under the ceiling.” Nina stood on the chair, her hair almost touching the ceiling, her eyes closed, her face pointed upward, her nostrils dilated. The warm smell of broccoli rose, caressing her face, enveloping her whole. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Debarking	Ira had been divorced for six months and still couldn’t get his wedding ring off. His finger had swelled doughily—a combination of frustrated desire, unmitigated remorse, and misdirected ambition was how he explained it. “I’m going to have to have my entire finger surgically removed,” he told his friends. The ring (supposedly gold, though now that everything he had ever received from Marilyn had been thrown into doubt, who knew?) cinched the blowsy fat of his finger, which had grown twistedly around it like a fucking happy challah. “Maybe I should cut the whole hand off and send it to her,” he said on the phone to his friend Mike, with whom he worked at the State Historical Society. “She’d understand the reference.” Ira had already ceremoniously set fire to his dove-gray wedding tux—hanging it on a tall stick in his back yard, scarecrow style, and igniting it with a Bic lighter. “That sucker went up really fast,” he gasped apologetically to the fire marshal, after the hedge caught, too—and before he was taken overnight to the local lockdown facility. “So fast. Maybe it was, I don’t know, like the residual dry-cleaning fluid.” “You’ll remove that ring when you’re ready,” Mike said now. Mike’s job approving historical-preservation projects on old houses left him time to take a lot of lenient-parenting courses and to read all the lenient-parenting books, though he had no children himself. He did this for project-applicant-management purposes. “Here’s what you do for your depression. I’m not going to say lose yourself in charity work. I’m not going to say get some perspective by watching our country’s news every night and contemplating those worse off than yourself, those, say, who are about to be blown apart by bombs. I’m going to say this: Stop drinking, stop smoking. Eliminate coffee, sugar, dairy products. Do this for three days, then start everything back up again. Bam. I guarantee you, you will be so happy.” “I’m afraid,” Ira said softly, “that the only thing that would make me happy right now is snipping the brake cables on Marilyn’s car.” “Spring,” Mike said helplessly, though it was still only the end of winter. “It can really hang you up the most.” “Hey. You should write songs. Just not too often.” Ira looked at his hands. Actually, he had once got the ring off in a hot bath, but the sight of his finger, naked as a child’s, had terrified him and he had shoved the ring back on. He could hear Mike sighing and casting about. Cupboard doors closed loudly. The refrigerator puckered open then whooshed shut. Ira knew that Mike and Kate had had their troubles—as the phrase went—but their marriage had always held. “I’d divorce Kate,” Mike had once confided, “but she’d kill me.” “Look,” Mike suggested, “why don’t you come to our house Sunday for a little Lent dinner. We’re having some people by, and who knows?” “Who knows?” Ira asked. “Yes—who knows.” “What’s a Lent dinner?” “We made it up. For Lent. We didn’t really want to do Mardi Gras. Too disrespectful, given the international situation.” “So you’re doing Lent. I’m unclear on Lent. I mean, I know what the word means to those of us of the Jewish faith. But we don’t usually commemorate these transactions with meals. Usually there’s just a lot of sighing.” “It’s like a pre-Easter Prince of Peace dinner,” Mike said slowly. “You’re supposed to give things up for Lent. Last year, we gave up our faith and reason. This year, we’re giving up our democratic voice, our hope.” Ira had already met most of Mike’s goyisheh friends. Mike himself was low-key, tolerant, self-deprecating to a fault. A self-described “ethnic Catholic,” he once complained dejectedly about not hav-ing been cute enough to be molested by a priest. “They would just shake my hand very quickly,” he said. Mike’s friends, however, tended to be tense, intellectually earnest Protestants who drove new, metallic-hued cars and who within five minutes of light conversation could be counted on to use the phrase “strictly within the framework of.” “Kate has a divorcée friend she’s inviting,” Mike said. “I’m not trying to fix you up. I really hate that stuff. I’m just saying come. Eat some food. It’s almost Easter season and—well, hey, we could use a Jew over here.” Mike laughed heartily. “Yeah, I’ll reënact the whole thing for you,” Ira said. He looked at his swollen ring finger again. “Yessirree. I’ll come over and show you all how it’s done.” Ira’s new house—though it was in what his real-estate agent referred to as “a lovely, pedestrian neighborhood,” abutting the streets named after Presidents, and boasting instead streets named after fishing flies (Caddis, Hendrickson, Gold-Ribbed Hare’s Ear Road)—was full of slow drains, leaky gas burners, stopped-up sinks, and excellent dust for scrawling curse words. Marilyn blows sailors. The draftier windows Ira had duct-taped up with sheets of plastic on the inside, as instructed by Homeland Security; cold air billowed the plastic inward like sails on a ship. On a windy day it was quite something. “Your whole house could fly away,” Mike said, looking around. “Not really,” Ira said lightly. “But it is spinning. It’s very interesting, actually.” The yard had already grown muddy with March and the flower beds were greening with the tiniest sprigs of stinkweed and quack grass. By June, the chemical weapons of terrorism aimed at the heartland might prove effective in weeding the garden. “This may be the sort of war I could really use!” Ira said out loud to a neighbor. Mike and Kate’s house, on the other hand, with its perfect lines and friendly fussiness, reeking, he supposed, of historical-preservation tax credits, seemed an impossible dream to him, something plucked from a magazine article about childhood memories conjured on a deathbed. Something seen through the window by the Little Match Girl! Outside, the soffits were perfectly squared. The crocuses were like bells, and the Siberian violets like grape candies scattered in the grass. Soon their prize irises would be gorgeously crested cockatoos along the side yard. Inside, the smell of warm food almost made him weep. With his coat still on, he rushed past Kate to throw his arms around Mike, kissing him on both cheeks. “All the beautiful men must be kissed!” Ira exclaimed. After he’d got his coat off and wandered into the dining room, he toasted with the champagne that he himself had brought. There were eight guests there, most of whom he knew to some degree, but really that was enough. That was enough for everyone. They raised their glasses with him. “To Lent!” Ira cried. “To the final days!” And, in case that was too grim, he added, “And to the Resurrection! May it happen a little closer to home next time! Jesus Christ!” Soon he drifted back into the kitchen and, as he felt was required of him, shrieked at the pork. Then he began milling around again, apologizing for the crucifixion. “We really didn’t intend it,” he murmured. “Not really, not the killing part? We just kind of got carried away? You know how spring can get a little crazy, but, believe me, we’re all really, really sorry.” Kate’s divorced friend was named Zora and was a pediatrician. Although no one else did, she howled with laughter, and when her face wasn’t blasted apart with it or her jaw snapping mutely open and shut like a pair of scissors (in what Ira recognized as post-divorce hysteria: “How long have you been divorced?” he later asked her. “Eleven years,” she replied) Ira could see that she was very beautiful: short black hair; eyes a clear, reddish hazel, like orange pekoe tea; a strong aquiline nose; thick lashes that spiked out, wrought and black as the tines of a fireplace fork. Her body was a mixture of thin and plump, her skin lined and unlined, in that rounding-the-corner-to-fifty way. Age and youth, he chanted silently, youth and age, sing their songs on the very same stage. Ira was working on a modest little volume of doggerel, its tentative title “Women from Venus, Men from Penis.” Like everyone he knew, he could discern the hollowness in people’s charm only when it was directed at someone other than himself. When it was directed at him, the person just seemed so totally nice. And so Zora’s laughter, in conjunction with her beauty, doomed him a little, made him grateful beyond reason. Immediately, he sent her a postcard, a photograph of newlyweds dragging empty Spam cans from the bumper of their car. He wrote: Dear Zora, Had such fun meeting you at Mike’s. And then he wrote his phone number. He kept it simple. In courtship he had a history of mistakes, beginning at sixteen with his first girlfriend, for whom he had bought at the local head shop the coolest thing he had then ever seen in his life: a beautifully carved wooden hand with its middle finger sticking up. He himself had coveted it tremulously for a year. How could she not love it? Her contempt for it, and then for him, had left him feeling baffled and betrayed. With Marilyn, he had taken the other approach and played hard to get, which had turned their relationship into a never-ending Sadie Hawkins Day, with subsequent marriage to Sadie an inevitable ruin—a humiliating and interminable Dutch date. But this, the Spam postcard and the note, he felt contained the correct combination of offhandedness and intent. This elusive mix—the geometric halfway point between stalker and Rip van Winkle—was important to get right in the world of middle-aged dating, he suspected, though what did he really know of this world? The whole thing seemed a kind of distant civilization, a planet of the apings: graying, human flotsam with scorched internal landscapes mimicking the young, picking up where they had left off decades ago, if only they could recall where the hell that was. Ira had been a married man for fifteen years, a father for eight (poor little Bekka, now rudely transported between houses in a speedy, ritualistic manner resembling a hostage drop-off), only to find himself punished for an idle little nothing, nothing, nothing flirtation with a colleague, punished with his wife’s full-blown affair and false business trips (credit-union conventions that never took place) and finally a petition for divorce mailed from a motel. Observing others go through them, he used to admire midlife crises, the courage and shamelessness and existential daring of them, but after he’d watched his own wife produce and star in a fabulous one of her own he found the sufferers of such crises not only self-indulgent but greedy and demented, and he wished them all weird unnatural deaths with various contraptions easily found in garages. He received a postcard from Zora in return. It was of van Gogh’s room in Arles. Beneath the clock face of the local postmark her handwriting was big but careful, some curlicuing in the “g”s and “f”s. It read, Had such fun meeting you at Mike’s. Wasn’t that precisely, word for word, what he had written to her? There was no “too,” no emphasized you, just exactly the same words thrown back at him like some lunatic postal Ping-Pong. Either she was stupid or crazy or he was already being too hard on her. Not being hard on people—“You bark at them,” Marilyn used to say—was something he was trying to work on. When he pictured Zora’s lovely face, it helped his tenuous affections. She had written her phone number and signed off with a swashbuckling “Z”—as in Zorro. That was cute, he supposed. He guessed. Who knew? He had to lie down. He had Bekka for the weekend. She sat in the living room, tuned to the Cartoon Network. Ira would sometimes watch her mesmerized face, as the cartoons flashed on the creamy screen of her skin, her eyes bright with reflected shapes caught there like holograms in marbles. He felt inadequate as her father, but he tried his best: affection, wisdom, reliability, plus not ordering pizza every visit, though tonight he had again caved in. Last week, Bekka had said to him, “When you and Mommy were married, we always had mashed potatoes for supper. Now you’re divorced and we always have spaghetti.” “Which do you like better?” he’d asked. “Neither!” she’d shouted, summing up her distaste for everything, marriage and divorce. “I hate them both.” Tonight, he had ordered the pizza half plain cheese and half with banana peppers and jalapeños. The two of them sat together in front of “Justice League,” eating slices from their respective sides. Chesty, narrow-waisted heroes in bright colors battled their enemies with righteous confidence and, of course, laser guns. Bekka finally turned to him. “Mommy says that if her boyfriend Daniel moves in I can have a dog. A dog and a bunny.” “And a bunny?” Ira said. When the family was still together, the four-year-old Bekka, new to numbers and the passage of time, used to exclaim triumphantly to her friends, “Mommy and Daddy say I can have a dog! When I turn eighteen!” There’d been no talk of bunnies. But perhaps the imminence of Easter had brought this on. He knew that Bekka loved animals. She had once, in a bath-time reverie, named her five favorite people, four of whom were dogs. The fifth was her own blue bike. “A dog and a bunny,” Bekka repeated, and Ira had to repress images of the dog with the rabbit’s bloody head in its mouth. “So, what do you think about that?” he asked cautiously, wanting to get her opinion on the whole Daniel thing. Bekka shrugged and chewed. “Whatever,” she said, her new word for “You’re welcome,” “Hello,” “Goodbye,” and “I’m only eight.” “I really just don’t want all his stuff there. His car already blocks our car in the driveway.” “Bummer,” Ira said, his new word for “I must remain as neutral as possible” and “Your mother’s a whore.” “I don’t want a stepfather,” Bekka said. “Maybe he could just live on the steps,” Ira said, and Bekka smirked, her mouth full of mozzarella. “Besides,” she said, “I like Larry better. He’s stronger.” “Who’s Larry?” Ira said, instead of “bummer.” “He’s this other dude,” Bekka said. She sometimes referred to her mother as a “dudette.” “Bummer,” Ira said. “Big, big bummer.” He phoned Zora four days later, so as not to seem pathetically eager. He summoned up his most confident acting. “Hi, Zora? This is Ira,” he said, and then waited—narcissistically perhaps, but what else was there to say?—for her response. “Ira?” “Yes. Ira Milkins.” “I’m sorry,” she said. “I don’t know who you are.” Ira gripped the phone and looked down at himself, suddenly finding nothing there. He seemed to have vanished from the neck down. “We met last Sunday at Mike and Kate’s?” His voice quavered. If he ever actually succeeded in going out with her, he was going to have to take one of those date-rape drugs and just pass out on her couch. “Ira? Ohhhhhhhhh—Ira. Yeah. The Jewish guy.” “Yeah, the Jew. That was me.” Should he hang up now? He did not feel he could go on. But he must go on. There was a man of theatre for you. “That was a nice dinner,” she said. “Yes, it was.” “I usually skip Lent completely.” “Me, too,” Ira said. “It’s just simpler. Who needs the fuss?” “But sometimes I forget how reassuring and conjoining a meal with friends can be, especially at a time like this.” Ira had to think about the way she’d used “conjoining.” It sounded New Age-y and Amish, both. “But Mike and Kate run that kind of home,” she went on. “It’s all warmth and good-heartedness.” Ira thought about this. What other kind of home was there to run, if you were going to bother? Hard, cold, and mean: that had been his home with Marilyn, at the end. It was like those experimental monkeys with the wire-monkey moms. What did the baby monkeys know? The wire mother was all they had, all they knew in their hearts, and so they clung to it, even if it was only a coat hanger. Mom. So much easier to carve the word into your arm. As a child, for a fifth-grade science project, in the basement of his house he’d tried to reproduce Konrad Lorenz’s imprinting experiment with baby ducks. But he had screwed up the incubation lights and cooked the ducks right in their eggs, stinking up the basement so much that his mother had screamed at him for days. Which was a science lesson of some sort—the emotional limits of the Homo sapiens working Jewish mother—but it was soft science, and therefore less impressive. “What kind of home do you run?” he asked. “Home? Yeah, I mean to get to one of those. Right now, actually, I’m talking to you from a pup tent.” Oh, she was a funny one. Perhaps they would laugh and laugh their way into the sunset. “I love pup tents,” he said. What was a pup tent, exactly? He’d forgotten. “Actually, I have a teen-age son, so I have no idea what kind of home I have anymore. Once you have a teen-ager, everything changes.” Now there was silence. He couldn’t imagine Bekka as a teen-ager. Or, rather, he could, sort of, since she often acted like one already, full of rage at the second-rate servants whom life had hired to take and bring her order. “Well, would you like to meet for a drink?” Zora asked finally, as if she had asked it many times before, her tone a mingling of weariness and the cheery pseudo-professionalism of someone in the dully familiar position of being single and dating. “Yes,” Ira said. “That’s exactly why I called.” “You can’t imagine the daily drudgery of routine pediatrics,” Zora said, not touching her wine. “Ear infection, ear infection, ear infection. Wope. Here’s an exciting one: juvenile-onset diabetes. Day after day, you have to look into the parents’ eyes and repeat the same exciting thing—‘There are a lot of viruses going around.’ I thought about going into pediatric oncology, because when I asked other doctors why they’d gone into such a depressing field they all said, ‘Because the kids don’t get depressed.’ That seemed interesting to me. And hopeful. But then when I asked doctors in the same field why they were retiring early they said they were sick of seeing kids die. The kids don’t get depressed, they just die! These were my choices in med school. As an undergraduate, I took a lot of art classes and did sculpture, which I still do a little to keep those creative juices flowing! But what I would really like to do now is write children’s books. I look at some of those books out in the waiting room and I want to throw them in the fish tank. I think, I could do better than that. I started one about a hedgehog.” “Now, what’s a hedgehog, exactly?” Ira was eying her full glass and his own empty one. “I get them mixed up with groundhogs and gophers.” “They’re—well, what does it matter, if they’re all wearing little polka-dot clothes, vests and hats and things?” she said irritably. “I suppose,” he said, now a little frightened. What was wrong with her? He did not like stressful moments in restaurants. They caused his mind to wander strangely to random thoughts, like “Why are these things called napkins rather than lapkins?” He tried to focus on the visuals, on her pumpkin-colored silk blouse, which he hesitated to compliment her on lest she think he was gay. Marilyn had threatened to call off their wedding because he had too strenuously admired the fabric of the gown she was having made; then he had shopped too long and discontentedly for his own tuxedo, failing to find just the right shade of “mourning dove,” a color he had read about in a wedding magazine. “Are you homosexual?” she had asked. “You must tell me now. I won’t make the same mistake my sister did.” Perhaps Zora’s irritability was only job fatigue. Ira himself had creative hankerings. Though his position was with the Historical Society’s human-resources office, he liked to help with the society’s exhibitions, doing posters and dioramas and once even making a puppet for a little show about the state’s first governor. Thank God for meaningful work! He understood those small, diaphanous artistic ambitions that overtook people and could look like nervous breakdowns. “What happens in your hedgehog tale?” Ira asked, then settled in to finish up his dinner, eggplant parmesan that he now wished he hadn’t ordered. He was coveting Zora’s wodge of steak. Perhaps he had an iron deficiency. Or perhaps it was just a desire for the taste of metal and blood in his mouth. Zora, he knew, was committed to meat. While other people’s cars were busy protesting the prospect of war or supporting the summoned troops, on her Honda Zora had a large bumper sticker that said, “Red meat is not bad for you. Fuzzy, greenish-blue meat is bad for you.” “The hedgehog tale? Well,” Zora began, “the hedgehog goes for a walk because he is feeling sad—it’s based on a story I used to tell my son. The hedgehog goes for a walk and comes upon this strange yellow house with a sign on it that says, ‘Welcome, Hedgehog: This could be your new home,’ and because he’s been feeling sad the thought of a new home appeals to him. So he goes in and inside is a family of alligators—well, I’ll spare you the rest, but you can get the general flavor of it from that.” “I don’t know about that family of alligators.” She was quiet for a minute, chewing her beautiful ruby steak. “Every family is a family of alligators,” she said. (Later, she would tell him that she’d been “emotionally incested” by her father. “But you turned out so well!” Ira would exclaim. “Daughters who are close to their fathers turn into achievers,” Zora said. “That’s been statistically shown!”) “Alligators. Well—that’s certainly one way of looking at it.” Ira glanced at his watch. “Yeah. To get back to the book. It gives me an outlet. I mean, my job’s not terrible. Some of the kids are cute. But some are impossible, of course. Some are disturbed, and some are just spoiled and ill-behaved. It’s hard to know what to do. We’re not allowed to hit them.” “You’re ‘not allowed to hit them’?” He could see that she had now made some progress with her wine. “I’m from Kentucky,” she said. “Ah.” He drank from his water glass, stalling. She chewed thoughtfully. Merlot was beginning to etch a ragged, scabby line in the dried skin of her bottom lip. “It’s like Ireland but with more horses and guns.” “Not a lot of Jews down there.” He had no idea why he said half the things he said. Perhaps this time it was because he had once been a community-based historian, digging in archives for the genealogies and iconographies of various ethnic groups, not realizing that other historians generally thought this a sentimental form of history, shedding light on nothing; and though shedding light on nothing didn’t seem a bad idea to him, when it became available he had taken the human-resources job. “Not too many,” she said. “I did know an Armenian family, growing up. At least I think they were Armenian.” When the check came, she ignored it, as if it were some fly that had landed and would soon be taking off again. So much for feminism. Ira pulled out his state worker’s credit card and the waitress came by and whisked it away. There were, he was once told, four seven-word sentences that generally signalled the end of a relationship. The first was “I think we should see other people” (which always meant another seven-word sentence: “I am already sleeping with someone else”). The second seven-word sentence was, reputedly, “Maybe you could just leave the tip.” The third was “How could you forget your wallet again?” And the fourth, the killer of all killers, was “Oh, look, I’ve forgotten my wallet, too!” He did not imagine that they would ever see each other again. But when he dropped her off at her house, walking her to the door, she suddenly grabbed his face with both hands, and her mouth became its own wet creature exploring his. She opened up his jacket, pushing her body inside it, against his, the pumpkin-colored silk of her blouse rubbing on his shirt. Her lips came away in a slurp. “I’m going to call you,” she said, smiling. Her eyes were wild with something, as if with gin, though she had only been drinking wine. “O.K.,” he mumbled, walking backward down her steps in the dark, his car still running, its headlights bright along her street. The following week, he was in Zora’s living room. It was beige and white with cranberry accents. On the walls were black-framed photos of her son, Bruno, at all ages. There were pictures of Bruno lying on the ground. There were pictures of Bruno and Zora together, the boy hidden in the folds of her skirt, Zora hanging her then long hair down into his face, covering him completely. There he was again, naked, leaning in between her knees like a cello. There were pictures of him in the bath, though in some he was clearly already at the start of puberty. In the corner of the room stood perhaps a dozen wooden sculptures of naked boys that Zora had carved herself. “One of my hobbies, which I was telling you about,” she said. They were astounding little things. She had drilled holes in their penises with a brace-and-bit to allow for water in case she could someday sell them as garden fountains. “These are winged boys. The beautiful adolescent boy who flies away. It’s from mythology. I forget what they’re called. I just love their little rumps.” He nodded, studying the tight, sculpted buttocks, the spouted, mushroomy phalluses, the long backs and limbs. So: this was the sort of woman he’d been missing out on, not being single all these years. What had he been thinking of, staying married for so long? He sat down and asked for wine. “You know, I’m just a little gun shy romantically,” he said apologetically. “I don’t have the confidence I used to. I don’t think I can take my clothes off in front of another person. Not even at the gym, frankly. I’ve been changing in the toilet stalls. After divorce and all.” “Oh, divorce will do that to you totally,” she said reassuringly. She poured him some wine. “It’s like a trick. It’s like someone puts a rug over a trapdoor and says, ‘Stand there.’ And so you do. Then boom.” From a drawer in a china hutch, she took out a pipe, loaded it with hashish from a packet of foil, then lit it, inhaling. She gave it to him. “I’ve never seen a pediatrician smoke hashish before.” “Really?” she said, with some difficulty, her breath still sucked in. The nipples of her breasts were long, cylindrical, and stiff, so that her chest looked as if two small plungers had flown across the room and suctioned themselves there. His mouth opened hungrily to kiss them. “Perhaps you would like to take off your shoes,” she whispered. “Oh, no,” he said. There was sex where you were looked in the eye and beautiful things were said to you and then there was what Ira used to think of as yoo-hoo sex: where the other person seemed spirited away, not quite there, their pleasure mysterious and crazy and only accidentally involving you. “Yoo-hoo?” was what his grandmother always called before entering a house where she knew people but not well enough to know whether they were actually home. “Where are you?” Ira said in the dark. He decided that in a case such as this he could feel a chaste and sanctifying distance. It wasn’t he who was having sex. The condom was having sex and he was just trying to stop it. Zora’s candles on the nightstand were heated to clear pools in their tins. They flickered smokily. He tried not to think about how, before she had even lit them and pulled back the bedcovers, he had noticed that they were already melted down to the thickness of buttons, their wicks blackened to a crisp. It was not good to think about the previous burning of the bedroom candles of a woman who had just unzipped your pants. Besides, he was too grateful for those candles—especially with all those little wonder boys in the living room. Perhaps by candlelight his whitening chest hair would not look so white. This was what candles were made for: the sad, sexually shy, out-of-shape, middle-aged him. How had he not understood this in his marriage? Zora herself looked ageless, like a nymph, with her short hair, although once she got his glasses off she became a blur of dim and shifting shapes and might as well have been Dick Cheney or Lon Chaney or the Blob, except that she smelled good and, but for the occasional rough patch, had the satiny skin of a girl. She let out a long, spent sigh. “Where did you go?” he asked again anxiously. “I’ve been right here, silly,” she said, and pinched his hip. She lifted one of her long legs up and down outside the covers. “Did you get off?” “I beg your pardon?” “Did you get off?” “ ‘Get off’?” Someone else had asked him the same question once, when he stopped in the jetway to tie his shoe after debarking from a plane. “Have an orgasm. With some men it’s not always clear.” “Yes, thank you. I mean, it was—to me—very clear.” “You’re still wearing your wedding ring,” she said. “It’s stuck, I don’t know why—” “Let me get at that thing,” she said, and pulled hard on his finger, but the loose skin around his knuckle bunched up and blocked the ring, abrading his hand. “Ow,” he finally said. “Perhaps later with soap,” she said. She lay back and swung her legs up in the air again. “Do you like to dance?” he asked. “Sometimes,” she said. “I’ll bet you’re a wonderful dancer.” “Not really,” she said. “But I can always think of things to do.” “That’s a nice trait.” “You think so?” and she leaned in and began tickling him. “I don’t think I’m ticklish,” he said. “Oh.” She stopped. “I mean, I probably am a little,” he added, “just not a lot.” “I’d like you to meet my son,” she said. “Is he here?” “Sure. He’s under the bed. Bruny?” Oh, these funny ones were funny. “No. He’s with his dad this week.” The extended families of divorce. Ira tried not to feel jealous. It was quite possible that he was not mature enough to date a divorced woman. “Tell me about his dad.” “His dad? His dad is another pediatrician, but he was really into English country dancing. Where eventually he met a lass. Alas.” Ira would put that in his book of verse. Alas, a lass. “I don’t think anyone should dance in a way that’s not just regular dancing,” Ira said. “It’s not normal. That’s just my opinion.” “Well, he left a long time ago. He said he’d made a terrible mistake getting married. He said that he just wasn’t capable of intimacy. I know that’s true for some people, but I’d never actually heard anyone say it out loud about themselves.” “I know,” Ira said. “Even Hitler never said that! I mean, I don’t mean to compare your ex to Hitler as a leader. Only as a man.” Zora stroked his arm. “Do you feel ready to meet Bruno? I mean, he didn’t care for my last boyfriend at all. That’s why we broke up.” “Really?” This silenced him for a moment. “If I left those matters up to my daughter, I’d be dating a beagle.” “I believe children come first.” Her voice now had a steely edge. “Oh, yes, yes, so do I,” Ira said quickly. He felt suddenly paralyzed and cold. She reached into the nightstand drawer, took out a vial, and bit into a pill. “Here, take half,” she said. “Otherwise we won’t get any sleep at all. Sometimes I snore. Probably you do, too.” “This is so cute,” Ira said warmly. “Our taking these pills together.” He staggered through his days, tired and unsure. At the office, he misplaced files. Sometimes he knocked things over by accident—a glass of water or the benefits manual. The buildup to war, too, was taking its toll. He lay in bed at night, the moments before sleep a kind of stark acquaintance with death. What had happened to the world? It was mid-March now, but it still did not look like spring, especially with the plastic sheeting duct-taped to his windows. When he tried to look out, the trees seemed to be pasted onto the waxy dinge of a still wintry sky. He wished that this month shared its name with a less military verb. Why “March”? How about a month named Skip? That could work. He got a couple of cats from the pound so that Bekka could have some live pet action at his house, too. He and Bekka went to the store and stocked up on litter and cat food. “Provisions!” Ira exclaimed. “In case the war comes here, we can eat the cat food,” Bekka suggested. “Cat food, heck. We can eat the cats,” Ira said. “That’s disgusting, Dad.” Ira shrugged. “You see, that’s one of the things Mom didn’t like about you!” she added. “Really? She said that?” “Sort of.” “Mom likes me. She’s just very busy.” “Yeah. Whatever.” He got back to the cats. “What should we name them?” “I don’t know.” She studied the cats. Ira hated the precious literary names that people gave pets—characters from opera and Proust. When he first met Marilyn, she had a cat named Portia, but he had insisted on calling it Fang. “I think we should name them Snowball and Snowflake,” Bekka said, looking glassy-eyed at the two golden tabbies. In the pound, someone with name-tag duty had named them “Jake” and “Fake Jake,” but the quotation marks around their names seemed an invitation to change them. “They don’t look like a snowball or a snowflake,” Ira said, trying not to let his disappointment show. Sometimes Bekka seemed completely banal to him. She had spells of inexplicable and vapid conventionality. He had always wanted to name a cat Bowser. “How about Bowser and Bowsee?” “Fireball and Fireflake,” Bekka tried again. Ira looked at her, he hoped, beseechingly and persuasively. “Are you sure? Fireball and Fireflake don’t really sound like cats that would belong to you.” Bekka’s face clenched tearily. “You don’t know me! I only live with you part time! The rest of the time I live with Mom, and she doesn’t know me, either! The only person who knows me is me!” “O.K., O.K.,” Ira said. The cats were eying him warily. In time of war, never argue with a fireball or a fireflake. Never argue with the food. “Fireball and Fireflake.” What were those? Two divorced middle-aged people on a date? “Why don’t you come to dinner?” Zora phoned one afternoon. “I’m making spring spaghetti, Bruny’s favorite, and you can come over and meet him. Unless you have Bekka tonight.” “What is spring spaghetti?” Ira asked. “Oh, it’s the same as regular spaghetti—you just serve it kind of lukewarm. Room temperature. With a little fresh basil.” “What should I bring?” “Perhaps you could just bring a small appetizer and some dessert,” she said. “And maybe a salad, some bread if you’re close to a bakery, and a bottle of wine. Also an extra chair, if you have one. We’ll need an extra chair.” “O.K.,” he said. He was a little loaded down at the door. She stepped outside, he thought to help him, but she simply put her arms around him. “I have to kiss you outside. Bruny doesn’t like to see that sort of thing.” She kissed Ira in a sweet, rubbery way on the mouth. Then she stepped back in, smiling, holding the door open for him. Oh, the beautiful smiles of the insane. Soon, he was sure, there would be a study that showed that the mentally ill were actually better-looking than other people. Dating proved it! The aluminum foil over his salad was sliding off, and the brownies he had made for dessert were still warm underneath the salad bowl, heating and wilting the lettuce. He attempted a familiar and proprietary stride through Zora’s living room, though he felt neither, then dumped everything on her kitchen table. “Thank you,” she said, and placed her hand on the small of his back. He was deeply attracted to her. There was nothing he could do about that. “It smells good,” he said. “You smell good.” Some mix of garlic and citrus and baby powder overlaid with nutmeg. Her hand wandered down and stroked his behind. “I’ve got to run back out to the car and get the appetizer and the chair,” he said, and made a quick dash. When he came back in, handed her the appetizer—a dish of herbed olives (he knew nothing about food; someone at work had told him you could never go wrong with herbed olives: “Spell it out. H-e-r b-e-d. Get it?”)—and then set the chair up at Zora’s little dining table for two (he’d never seen one not set up for at least four), Zora looked brightly at him and whispered, “Are you ready to meet Bruny?” Ready. He did not know precisely what she meant by that. It seemed that she had reversed everything, that she should be asking Bruno, or Bruny, if he was ready to meet him. “Ready,” he said. There was wavery flute-playing behind a closed door down the hallway. “Bruny?” Zora called. The music stopped. Suddenly a barking, howling voice called, “What?” “Come out and meet Ira, please.” There was silence. Nobody moved at all for a very long time. Ira smiled politely. “Oh, let him play,” he said. “I’ll be right back,” Zora said, and she headed down the hall to Bruno’s room, knocked on the door, then went in, closing it behind her. Ira stood there for a while, then he picked up the Screwpull, opened the bottle of wine, and began to drink. After several minutes, Zora returned to the kitchen, sighing, “Bruny’s in a little bit of a mood.” Suddenly a door slammed and soft, trudging footsteps brought Bruno, the boy himself, into the kitchen. He was barefoot and in a T-shirt and gym shorts, his legs already dark with hair. His eyebrows sprouted in a manly black V over the bridge of his nose. He was not tall but he was muscular, broad-shouldered, and thick-limbed. He folded his arms across his chest and leaned against the wall with weary belligerence. “Bruny, this is Ira,” Zora said. Ira put his wineglass down and extended his hand. Bruno unfolded his arms, but did not shake hands. Instead, he thrust out his chin and scowled. Ira picked up his wineglass again. “Good to meet you. Your mother has said a lot of wonderful things about you.” Bruno looked at the appetizer bowl. “What’s all this grassy gunk all over the olives.” It was not really a question, so no one answered it. Bruno turned back to his mother. “May I go back to my room now?” “Yes, dear,” Zora said. She looked at Ira. “He’s practicing for the woodwind competition next Saturday. He’s very serious.” When Bruno had tramped back down to his room, Ira leaned in to kiss Zora, but she pulled away. “Bruny might hear us,” she whispered. “Let’s go to a restaurant. Just you and me. My salad’s no good.” “Oh, we couldn’t leave Bruno here alone. He’s only sixteen.” “I was working in a steel factory when I was sixteen!” Ira decided not to say. Instead, he said, “Doesn’t he have friends?” “He’s between social groups right now,” Zora said defensively. “It’s difficult for him to find other kids who are as intellectually serious as he is.” “We’ll rent him a movie,” Ira said. “Excuse me, a film. A foreign film, since he’s serious. A documentary. We’ll rent him a foreign documentary!” “We don’t have a VCR.” “You don’t have a VCR?” At this point, Ira found the silverware and helped set the table. When they sat down to eat, Bruno suddenly came out and joined them. The spring spaghetti was tossed in a large glass bowl with grated cheese. “Just how you like it, Brune,” Zora said. “So, Bruno. What grade are you in?” Bruno rolled his eyes. “Tenth,” he said. “So college is a ways off,” Ira said, accidentally thinking out loud. “I guess,” Bruno said. “What classes are you taking in school, besides music?” Ira asked, after a long awkward spell. “I don’t take music,” Bruno said with his mouth full. “I’m in All-State Woodwinds.” “All-State Woodwinds! Interesting! Do you take any courses like, say, American history?” “They’re studying the Amazon rain forest yet again,” Zora said. “They’ve been studying it since preschool.” Ira slurped with morose heartiness at his wine—he had spent too much of his life wandering about in the desert of his own drool; oh, the mealtime games he had played on his own fragile mind—and some dribbled on his shirt. “For Pete’s sake, look at this.” He dabbed at it with his napkin and looked up at Bruno with an ingratiating grin. “Someday this could happen to you,” Ira said, twinkling in Bruno’s direction. “That would never happen to me,” Bruno muttered. Ira continued dabbing at his shirt. He began thinking of his book. Though I be your mother’s beau, no rival I, no foe, faux foe. He loved rhymes. They were harmonious and joyous in the face of total crap. Soon Bruno was gently tapping his foot against his mother’s under the table. Zora began playfully to nudge him back, and then they were both kicking away, their energetic footsie causing them to slip in their chairs a little, while Ira pretended not to notice, cutting his salad with the edge of his fork, too frightened to look up. After a few minutes—when the footsie had stopped and Ira had exclaimed, “Great dinner, Zora!”—they all stood and cleared their places, taking the dishes into the kitchen, putting them in a messy pile in the sink. Ira began halfheartedly to run warm water over them while Zora and Bruno, some distance behind him, jostled up against each other, ramming lightly into each other’s sides. Ira glanced over his shoulder and saw Zora step back and assume a wrestler’s starting stance as Bruno leaped toward her, heaving her over his shoulder, then ran into the living room, where, Ira could see, he dumped her, laughing, on the couch. Should Ira join in? Should he leave? “I can still pin you, Brune, when we’re on the bed,” Zora said. “Yeah, right,” Bruno said. Perhaps it was time to go. Next time, Ira would bring over a VCR for Bruno and just take Zora out to eat. “Well, look at the clock! Good to meet you, Bruno,” he said, shaking the kid’s large limp hand. Zora stood, out of breath. She walked Ira out to his car, helping to carry his chair and salad bowl. “It was a lovely evening,” Ira said. “And you are a lovely woman. And your son seems so bright and the two of you are adorable together.” Zora beamed, seemingly mute with happiness. If only Ira had known how to speak such fanciful baubles during his marriage, surely Marilyn would never have left him. He gave Zora a quick kiss on the cheek—the heat of wrestling had heightened her beautiful nutmeg smell—then kissed her again on the neck, near her ear. Alone in his car on the way home, he thought of all the deeply wrong erotic attachments that were made in wartime, all the crazy romances cooked up quickly by the species to offset death. He turned the radio on: the news of the Middle East was so surreal and bleak that when he heard the tonnage of the bombs planned for Baghdad he could feel his jaw fall slack in astonishment. He pulled the car over, turned on the interior light, and gazed in the rearview mirror just to see what his face looked like in this particular state. He had felt his face drop in this manner once before, when he first got the divorce papers from Marilyn—now, there was shock and awe for you; there was decapitation—but he had never actually seen what he looked like this way. So. Now he knew. Not good: stunned, pale, and not all that bright. It wasn’t the same as self-knowledge, but life was long and not that edifying, and one sometimes had to make do with these randomly seized tidbits. He started up again, slowly; it was raining now, and, at a shimmeringly lit intersection of two gas stations, one QuikTrip, and a KFC, half a dozen young people in hooded yellow slickers were holding up signs that read “Honk for Peace.” Ira fell upon his horn, first bouncing his hand there, then just leaning his whole arm into it. Other cars began to do the same, and soon no one was going anywhere—a congregation of mourning doves, but honking like geese in a wild chorus of futility, windshield wipers clearing their fan-shaped spaces on the drizzled night glass. No car went anywhere for the change of two lights. For all its stupidity and solipsism and self-consciously scenic civic grief, it was something like a gorgeous moment. Despite Bekka’s reading difficulties, despite her witless naming of the cats, Ira knew that his daughter was highly intelligent. He knew it from the time she spent lying around the house, bored and sighing, saying, “Dad? When will childhood be over?” This was a sign of genius! As were other things. Her complete imperviousness to the adult male voice, for instance. Her scrutiny of all food. With interest and hesitancy, she studied the antiwar signs that bestrewed the neighborhood lawns. “ ‘War Is Not the Path to Peace,’ ” she read slowly aloud. Then added, “Well—duh.” “ ‘War Is Not the Answer,’ ” she read on another. “Well, that doesn’t make sense,” she said to Ira. “War is the answer. It’s the answer to the question ‘What’s George Bush going to start real soon?’ ” The times Bekka stayed at his house, she woke up in the morning and told him her dreams. “I had a dream last night that I was walking with two of my friends and we met a wolf. But I made a deal with the wolf. I said, ‘Don’t eat me. These other two have more meat on them.’ And the wolf said, ‘O.K.,’ and we shook on it and I got away.” Or, “I had a strange dream last night that I was a bad little fairy.” She was in contact with her turmoil and with her ability to survive. How could that be anything less than emotional brilliance? One morning she said, “I had a really scary dream. There was this tornado with a face inside? And I married it.” Ira smiled. “It may sound funny to you, Dad, but it was really scary.” He stole a look at her school writing journal once and found this poem: Time moving Time standing still. What is the difference? Time standing still is the difference. He had no idea what it meant, but he knew that it was awesome. He had given her the middle name Clio, after the Muse of history, so of course she would know very well that time standing still was the difference. He personally felt that he was watching history from the dimmest of backwaters—a land of beer and golf, the horizon peacefully fish-gray. With the windows covered in plastic sheeting, he felt as if he were inside a plastic container, like a leftover, peering into the tallow fog of the world. Time moving. Time standing still. The major bombing started on the first day of spring. “It’s happening,” Ira said into Mike’s answering machine. “The whole thing is starting now.” Zora called and asked him to the movies. “Sure,” Ira said. “I’d love to.” “Well, we were thinking of this Arnold Schwarzenegger movie, but Bruno would also be willing to see the Mel Gibson one.” We. He was dating a tenth grader now. Even in tenth grade he hadn’t done that. Well, he’d see what he’d missed. They picked him up at six-forty, and, as Bruno made no move to cede the front seat, Ira sat in the back of Zora’s Honda, his long legs wedged together at a diagonal, like a lady riding sidesaddle. Zora drove carefully, not like a mad hellcat at all, as for some reason he had thought she would. As a result, they were late for the Mel Gibson movie and had to make do with the Schwarzenegger. Ira thrust money at the ticket-seller—“Three, please”—and they all wordlessly went in, their computerized stubs in hand. “So you like Arnold Schwarzenegger?” Ira said to Bruno as they headed down the red-carpeted corridor. “Not really,” Bruno muttered. Bruno sat between Zora and Ira, and together they passed a small container of popcorn back and forth. Ira jumped up twice to refill it out in the lobby, a kind of relief for him from Arnold, whose line readings were less brutish than they used to be but not less brutish enough. Afterward, heading out into the parking lot, Bruno and Zora reënacted body-bouncing scenes from the film. When they reached the car, Ira was again relegated to the back seat. “Shall we go to dinner?” he called up to the front. Both Zora and Bruno were silent. “Shall we?” he tried again, cheerfully. “Would you like to, Bruno?” Zora asked. “Are you hungry?” “I don’t know,” Bruno said, peering gloomily out the window. “Did you like the movie?” Ira asked. Bruno shrugged. “I don’t know.” They went to a barbecue place and got ribs and chicken. “Let me pay for this,” Ira said, though Zora hadn’t offered. “Oh, O.K.,” she said. Afterward, Zora dropped Ira at the curb, where he stood for a minute, waving, in front of his house. He watched them roll down to the end of the block and disappear around the corner. He went inside and made himself a drink with cranberry juice and rum. He turned on the TV news and watched the bombing. Night bombing, so you could not really see. A few mornings later was the first day of a new month. The illusion of time flying, he knew, was to make people think that life could have more in it than it actually could. Time flying could make human lives seem victorious over time itself. Time flew so fast that in ways it failed to make an impact. People’s lives fell between its stabbing powers like insects between raindrops. “We cheat the power of time with our very brevity!” he said aloud to Bekka, feeling confident that she would understand, but she just kept petting the cats. The house had already begun to fill with the acrid-honey smell of cat pee, though neither he nor Bekka seemed to mind. Spring! One more month and it would be May, his least favorite. Why not a month named Can? Or Must! Well, maybe not Must. Zora phoned him early, with a dour tone. “I don’t know. I think we should break up,” she said. “You do?” “Yes, I don’t see that this is going anywhere. Things aren’t really moving forward in any way that I can understand. And I don’t think we should waste each other’s time.” “Really?” Ira was dumbfounded. “It may be fine for some, but dinner, a movie, and sex is not my idea of a relationship.” “Maybe we could eliminate the movie?” he asked desperately. “We’re adults—” “True. I mean, we are?” “—and what is the point, if there are clear obstacles or any unclear idea of where this is headed, of continuing? It becomes difficult to maintain faith. We’ve hardly begun seeing each other, I realize, but already I just don’t envision us as a couple.” “I’m sorry to hear you say that.” He was now sitting down in his kitchen. He could feel himself trying not to cry. “Let’s just move on,” she said with gentle firmness. “Really? Is that honestly what you think? I feel terrible.” “April Fool’s!” she cried out into the phone. His heart rose to his throat then sank to his colon then bobbed back up close to the surface of his rib cage where his right hand was clutching at it. Were there paddles nearby that could be applied to his chest? “I beg your pardon?” he asked faintly. “April Fool’s,” she said again, laughing. “It’s April Fool’s Day.” “I guess,” he said, gasping a little, “I guess that’s the kind of joke that gets better the longer you think about it.” He had never been involved with the mentally ill before, but now more than ever he was convinced that there should be strong international laws against their being too physically attractive. The public’s safety was at risk! “How are you liking Zora?” Mike asked over a beer, after they’d mulled over the war and the details of Dick Cheney’s tax return, which had just been printed in the paper. Why wasn’t there a revolution? Was everyone too distracted with tennis and sex and tulip bulbs? Marxism in the spring lacked oomph. Ira had just hired someone to paint his house, so now on his front lawn he had two signs: “War Is Not the Answer” in blue and, on the other side of the lawn, in black and yellow, “Jenkins Painting Is the Answer.” “Oh, Zora’s great.” Ira paused. “Great. Just great. In fact, do you perhaps know any other single women?” “Really?” “Well, it’s just that she might not be all that mentally well.” He thought about the moment, just the night before, at dinner, when she’d said, “I love your mouth most when it does that odd grimace thing in the middle of sex,” and then she contorted her face so hideously that Ira felt as if he’d been struck. Later in the evening, she’d said, “Watch this,” and she’d taken her collapsible umbrella, placed its handle on the crotch of her pants, then pressed the button that sent it rocketing out, unfurled, like a cartoon erection. Ira did not know who or what she was, though he wanted to cut her some slack, give her a break, bestow upon her the benefit of the doubt—all those paradoxical clichés of supposed generosity, most of which he had denied his wife. He tried not to believe that the only happiness he was fated for had already occurred, had been with Bekka and Marilyn, when the three of them were together. A hike, a bike ride—he tried not to think that this crazy dream of family had shown its sweet face just long enough to torment him for the rest of his life, though scarcely long enough to sustain him through a meal. Torturing oneself with the idea of family happiness while not actually having a family, he decided, might be a fairly new circumstance in social history. People had probably not been like this a hundred years ago. He imagined an exhibit at the society. He imagined the puppets. “Sanity’s conjectural,” Mike said. His brow furrowed thoughtfully. “Zora’s very attractive, don’t you think?” Ira thought of her beautiful, slippery skin, the dark, sweet hair, the lithe sylph’s body, the mad, hysterical laugh. She had once, though only briefly, insisted that Man Ray and Ray Charles were brothers. “She is attractive,” Ira said. “But you say that like it’s a good thing.” “Right now,” Mike said, “I feel like anything that isn’t about killing people is a good thing.” “This may be about that,” Ira said. “Oh, I see. Now we’re entering the callow, glib part of spring.” “She’s wack, as the kids say.” Mike looked confused. “Is that like wacko?” “Yes. But not like Waco—at least not yet. I would stop seeing her, but I don’t seem to be able to. Especially now, with all that’s happening in the world, I can’t live without some intimacy, companionship, whatever you want to call it, to face down this global insanity.” “You shouldn’t use people as human shields.” Mike paused. “Or—I don’t know—maybe you should.” “I can’t let go of hope, of the illusion that something is going to come out of this romance. I’m sorry. Divorce is a trauma, believe me, I know. It’s death within life! Its pain is a national secret! But that’s not it. I can’t let go of love. I can’t live without some scrap of it. Hold my hand,” Ira said. His eyes were starting to water. Once, when he was a small child, he had got lost, and when his mother had finally found him, four blocks from home, she’d asked him if he’d been scared. “Not really,” he had said, sniffling pridefully. “But then my eyes just suddenly started to water.” “I beg your pardon?” Mike asked. “I can’t believe I just asked you to hold my hand,” Ira said, but Mike had already taken it. On the bright side, the hashish was good. The sleeping pills were good. He was walking slowly around the halls at work in what was a combination of serene energy and a nap. With his birthday coming up, he went to the doctor for his triannual annual physical and, having mentioned a short list of nebulous symptoms, he was given dismissive diagnoses of “benign vertigo,” “pseudo gout,” or perhaps “migraine aura,” the names, no doubt, of rock bands. “You’ve got the pulse of a boy, and the mind of a boy, too,” his doctor, an old golfing friend, said. Health, Ira decided, was notional. Palm Sunday—all these goyim festivals were preprinted on his calendar—was his birthday, and when Zora called he blurted out that information. “It is?” she said. “You old man! Are you feeling undernookied? I’ll come over Sunday and read your palm.” Wasn’t she cute? Damn it, she was cute. She arrived with Bruno and a chocolate cake in tow. “Happy birthday,” she said. “Bruno helped me make the frosting.” “Did you, now?” he said to Bruno, patting him on the back in a brotherly embrace, which the boy attempted to duck and slide out from under. They ordered Chinese food and talked about high school, advanced-placement courses, homeroom teachers, and James Galway (soulful mick or soulless dork, who could decide?). Zora brought out the cake. There were no candles, so Ira lit a match, stuck it upright in the frosting, and blew it out. His wish was a vague and general one of good health for Bekka. No one but her. He had put nobody else in his damn wish. Not the Iraqi people, not the G.I.s, not Mike, who had held his hand, not Zora. This kind of focussed intensity was bad for the planet. “Shall we sit on Bruno?” Zora was laughing and backing her sweet tush into Bruno, who was now sprawled out on Ira’s sofa, protesting in a grunting way. “Come on!” she called to Ira. “Let’s sit on Bruno.” Ira began making his way toward the liquor cabinet. He believed there was some bourbon in there. He would not need ice. “Would you care for some bourbon?” he called over to Zora, who was now wrestling with Bruno. She looked up at Ira and said nothing. Bruno, too, looked at him and said nothing. Ira continued to pour. At this point, he was both drinking bourbon and eating cake. He had a pancreas like a rock. “We should probably go,” Zora said. “It’s a school night.” “Oh, O.K.,” Ira said, swallowing. “I mean, I wish you didn’t have to.” “School. What can you do? I’m going to take the rest of the cake home for Bruny’s lunch tomorrow. It’s his favorite.” Heat and sorrow filled Ira’s face. The cake had been her only present to him. He closed his eyes and nuzzled his head into hers. “Not now,” she whispered. “He gets upset.” “Oh, O.K.,” he said. “I’ll walk you out to the car.” And there he gave her a quick hug before she walked around the car and got in on the driver’s side. He stepped back onto the curb and knocked on Bruno’s window to say goodbye. But the boy would not turn. He flipped his hand up, showing Ira the back of it. “Bye! Thank you for sharing my birthday with me!” Ira called out. Where affection fell on its ass, politeness might rise to the occasion. Zora’s Honda lights went on, then the engine, and then the whole vehicle flew down the street. At the cuckoo private school to which Marilyn had years ago insisted on sending Bekka, the students and teachers were assiduously avoiding talk of the war. Bekka’s class was doing finger-knitting while simultaneously discussing their hypothetical stock-market investments. The class was doing best with preferred stocks in Kraft, G.E., and G.M.; watching them move slightly every morning on the Dow Jones was also helping their little knitted scarves. It was a right-brain, left-brain thing. For this, Ira forked over nine thousand dollars a year. Not that he really cared. As long as Bekka was in a place safe from death—the alerts were moving from orange to red to orange; no information, just duct tape and bright, warm, mind-wrecking colors—turning her into a knitting stockbroker was O.K. with him. Exploit the system, man! he himself used to say, in college. He could, however, no longer watch TV. He packed it up, along with the VCR, and brought the whole thing over to Zora’s. “Here,” he said. “This is for Bruno.” “You are so sweet,” she said, and kissed his ear. Possibly he was in love with her. “The TV’s broken,” Ira said to Bekka, when she came that weekend and asked about it. “It’s in the shop.” “Whatever,” Bekka said, pulling her scarf yarn along the floor so the cats could play. The next time he picked Zora up to go out, she said, “Come on in. Bruno’s watching a movie on your VCR.” “Does he like it? Should I say hello to him?” Zora shrugged. “If you want.” He stepped into the house, but the TV was not in the living room. It was in Zora’s bedroom, where, spread out half naked on Zora’s bedspread, as Ira had been just a few days before, lay Bruno. He was watching Bergman’s “The Magic Flute.” “Hi, Brune,” he said. The boy said nothing, transfixed, perhaps not hearing him. Zora came in and pressed a cold glass of water against the back of Bruno’s thigh. “Yow!” Bruno cried. “Here’s your water,” Zora said, walking her fingers up his legs. Bruno took it and placed it on the floor. The singing on the same television screen that had so recently brought Ira the fiery bombing of Baghdad seemed athletic and absurd, perhaps a kind of joke. But Bruno remained riveted. “Well, enjoy the show,” Ira said. He hadn’t really expected to be thanked for the TV, but now actually knowing that he wouldn’t be made him feel a little crestfallen. On the way back out, Ira noticed that Zora had added two new sculptures to the collection in the living room. They were more abstract, made entirely out of old recorders and wooden flutes, but were recognizably boys, priapic with piccolos. “A flute would have been too big,” Zora explained. At the restaurant, the sound system was playing Dinah Washington singing “For All We Know.” The walls, like love, were trompe-l’oeil—walls painted like viewful windows, though only a fool wouldn’t know that they were walls. The menu, like love, was full of delicate, gruesome things—cheeks, tongues, thymus glands. The candle, like love, flickered, reflected in the brass tops of the sugar bowl and the salt and pepper shakers. He tried to capture Zora’s gaze, which seemed to be darting around the room. “It’s so nice to be here with you,” he said. She turned and fixed him with a smile, repaired him with it. She was a gentle, lovely woman. Something in him kept coming stubbornly back to that. Here they were, two lonely adults lucky to have found each other, even if it was just for the time being. But now tears were drizzling down her face. Her mouth, collecting them in its corners, was retreating into a pinch. “Oh, no, what’s the matter?” He reached for her hand, but she pulled it away to hide her eyes behind it. “I just miss Bruny,” she said. He could feel his heart go cold, despite himself. Oh, well. Tomorrow was Easter. Much could rise from the dead. Yesterday had been “Good Friday.” Was this all cultural sarcasm—like “Labor Day” or “Some Enchanted Evening”? “Don’t you think he’s fine?” Ira tried to focus. “It’s just—I don’t know. It’s probably just me coming off my antidepressants.” “You’ve been on antidepressants?” he asked sympathetically. “Yes, I was.” “You were on them when I first met you?” Perhaps he had wandered into a whole “Flowers for Algernon” thing. “Yes, indeedy. I went on them two years ago, after my ‘nervous breakdown.’ ” Here she raised two fingers, to do quotation marks, but all of her fingers inadvertently sprang up and her hands clawed the air. He didn’t know what he should say. “Would you like me to take you home?” “No, no, no. Oh, maybe you should. I’m sorry. It’s just I feel I have so little time with him now. He’s growing up so fast. I just wish I could go back in time.” She blew her nose. “I know what you mean.” “You know, once I was listening to some friends talk about travelling in the Pacific. They left Australia early one morning and arrived in California the evening of the day before. And I thought, I’d like to do that—keep crossing the international date line and get all the way back to when Bruno was a little boy again.” “Yeah,” Ira said. “I’d like to get back to the moment where I signed my divorce agreement. I have a few changes I’d like to make.” “You’d have to bring a pen,” she said strangely. He studied her, to memorize her face. “I would never time-travel without a pen,” he said. She paused. “You look worried,” she said. “You shouldn’t do that with your forehead. It makes you look old.” Then she began to sob. He found her coat and drove her home and walked her to the door. Above the house, the hammered nickel of the moon gave off a murky shine. “It’s a hard time in the world right now,” Ira said. “It’s hard on everybody. Go in and make yourself a good stiff drink. People don’t drink they way they used to. That’s what started this whole Iraq thing to begin with: it’s a war of teetotallers. People have got to get off their wagons and high horses and—” He kissed her forehead. “I’ll call you tomorrow,” he said, though he knew he wouldn’t. She squeezed his arm and said, “Sleep well.” As he backed out of her driveway, he could see Bruno laid out in a shirtless stupor on Zora’s bed, the TV firing its colorful fire. He could see Zora come in, sit down, cuddle close to Bruno, put her arm around him, and rest her head on his shoulder. Ira brusquely swung the car away. Was this his problem? Was he too old-fashioned? He had always thought he was a modern man. He knew, for instance, how to stop and ask for directions. And he did it a lot! Of course, afterward, he would sometimes stare at the guy and say, “Who the hell told you that bullshit?” He had his limitations. He had not gone to a single seder this week, for which he was glad. It seemed a bad time to attend a ceremony that gave thanks in any way for the slaughter of Middle-Eastern boys. He had done that last year. He headed instead to the nearest bar, a dank, noisy dive called Sparky’s, where he had often gone just after Marilyn left him. When he was married he never drank, but after the divorce he used to come in even in the mornings for beer, toast, and fried side meat. All his tin-pot miseries and chickenshit joys would lead him once again to Sparky’s. Those half-dozen times that he had run into Marilyn at a store—this small town!—he had felt like a dog seeing its owner. Here was the person he knew best in life, squeezing an avocado and acting like she didn’t see him. Oh, here I am, oh, here I am! But in Sparky’s he knew he was safe from such unexpected encounters. He could sit alone and moan to Sparky. Some people consulted Marcus Aurelius for philosophy about the pain of existence. Ira consulted Sparky. Sparky himself didn’t actually have that much to say about the pain of existence. He mostly leaned across the bar, drying a smudgy glass with a dingy towel, and said, “Choose life!” then guffawed. “Bourbon straight up,” Ira said, selecting the barstool closest to the TV, from which it would be hardest to watch the war news. Or so he hoped. He let the sharp, buttery elixir of the bourbon warm his mouth, then swallowed its neat, sweet heat. He did this over and over, ordering drink after drink, until he was lit to the gills. At which point he looked up and saw that there were other people gathered at the bar, each alone on a chrome-and-vinyl stool, doing the same. “Happy Easter,” Ira said to them, lifting his glass with his left hand, the one with the wedding ring still jammed on. “The dead are risen! The damages will be mitigated! The Messiah is back among us squeezing the flesh—that nap went by quickly, eh? May all the dead arise! No one has really been killed at all—O.K., God looked away for a second to watch some ‘I Love Lucy’ re-runs, but he is back now. Nothing has been lost. All is restored. He watching over Israel slumbers not nor sleeps!” “Somebody slap that guy,” said the man in the blue shirt down at the end. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
All Aunt Hagar’s Children	On what was to have been one of my last days in Washington, my mother, my aunt, and murdered Ike’s mother came up to the second-floor office I had been sharing with Samuel Jaffe. This was three weeks after Sam had gone to Israel, and a little more than nine months since I’d left the Korean War. When the big front door downstairs opened and shut, it shook the windows of our building on F Street, and as the three women came in I watched the giant window in our office do a quick, awful shaking, then slowly come to rest. I heard the three coming up the stairs and learned seconds later that it was murdered Ike’s mother who was wearing those heavy black old-lady shoes, which made the loudest sound as the women clumped their way up to me. This was two months since I’d told Sheila Larkin as kindly as I could that she and I were finished. “So, you have your way with this woman and now you tellin her to just disappear?” The three women were all the while talking, talking as easily as if they were sitting around over coffee and sweet rolls in one of their living rooms, the way they had no doubt been doing since before I was even a consideration in my mother’s eye. Then they were standing in my doorway, the three of them. I turned from the giant window showing me a beautiful day on F Street and faced them. I put down the box I was holding and brushed myself off; a man like me does not greet the woman who brought him into the world while holding a box of dusty belongings from an undistinguished life. This was a little more than a month since the white woman had died right in front of my eyes. “No, Sheila baby, that ain’t what I’m sayin at all.” “Talked to Freddy, and he told me say hi,” my mother said. My older brother was studying to be a lawyer. She offered her cheeks and I kissed them, her face wrinkle-free. “I’m guiltless,” she once said to me. Her dark cheeks were lightly rouged. As a rule, my mother wasn’t demonstrative. She lived in a sphere all her own, where few things could intrude and hurt her anymore. She always let Freddy and me in, but she kept her eye on the door while we visited, lest we say something wrong and she had to show us out. I got a letter from Freddy three weeks after I hit Korea: “You’d best return alive or Mama will never be the same. She can’t stop crying.” I spent many Korean months trying to reconcile the mother to beat all mothers of my childhood with the mother in Freddy’s letters who was mourning me. I touched my mother’s elbow and stepped around her to Aunt Penny. I kissed her cheek. She and Uncle Al owned a grocery store at Fifth and O Streets, N.W. As children, Freddy and I had all the sweets boys could want. “Love ya,” Aunt Penny said. The three women were all wearing gloves on that warm day; theirs may have been the last generation of Negro women to go about the world in such a way. “Here, Aggie,” my aunt said, turning to Miss Agatha. I hugged Miss Agatha. I hadn’t seen her for months, though we had talked soon after I returned from Korea, when I made the obligatory visits in my uniform to family and friends: a Negro had gone off to the man’s war and survived to tell about it to all who had prayed for him. Miss Agatha’s only child had been murdered while I was in Korea, and Freddy had sent me the articles from the Daily News. Ike Appleton had always gone for bad. He beat me bloody when I was in junior high school, and Freddy found him and whipped him just as bad, and after that I never had any trouble from Ike. The articles had a picture of Ike in his high-school-graduation cap. Miss Agatha’s face had enough lines for all three women—someone had come up behind Ike as he sat over supper and blown his brains out. “You look well,” Miss Agatha said. “Maybe workin downtown mongst white folks grees with you.” When I was eight, I went to some boy’s birthday party and spent days telling Freddy about the good time I’d had and about all the boss gifts the boy had received. On the third day of all that talking, my mother, unsmiling, said to me, “Remember, every happy birthday boy is headed for his grave.” I asked Miss Agatha, “How you been?” “Fine. In my way.” My mother came around me. I knew she had been behind me, taking the measure of me and the room, finding something she could use against me. She took off her gloves, slowly, one long finger after another. “She’s here to ask for your help,” my mother said. “Aggie thinks you know things. It ain’t for me to tell her different.” I looked at her. “She thinks her way.” Any day now, I was due to go off to Alaska to hunt for gold with a war buddy. (“I didn’t think white people let Negroes into white Alaska,” my mother said when I mentioned my plans.) The “favor” thing sounded like a big obstacle between me and gold and cars and clothes and more women than I could shake a dick at, as my buddy had put it. I was ready for a new place; I was a veteran of Washington, D.C., and there was nothing else for me to discover. And I wanted to get far away, because I thought it might help me to stop thinking about that dead white woman. “A moll is gav vain ah rav und ah rabbit sin,” the woman had said as she was dying. The night before, I dreamed I had been able to save her. She had gotten up off the streetcar tracks and walked away. “A favor. We don’t ask for much,” my mother was saying. That could be true about women. Even Sheila Larkin had said it that last time, when I told her we were finished: “God knows I don’t ask for much from you, man.” Maybe in Alaska I could learn something new about women and become a different kind of veteran. My mother opened her pocketbook and dropped her gloves into it and, while looking at me, one of her two living children, snapped it shut. That sound was all the room had. “They killed my Ike,” Miss Agatha said, as if I needed to be reminded. He was one of only sixty-six people murdered in D.C. that first year I was away. “Near bout two years gone by and they ain’t done any more than the day it happened.” “If they are doin somethin, they keepin it secret,” Aunt Penny said. “One more colored boy outa their hair. It’s a shame before God, the way they do all Aunt Hagar’s children.” “Penny,” my mother said, “don’t get worked up now.” My mother was the youngest of them, Miss Agatha the oldest by at least five years. When the three were girls in Alabama, a white man had set out after Miss Agatha as they walked home from school. The man tried to drag her into the woods and have his way with her. My mother and my aunt picked up rocks and beat the man down to the ground until he was no more than an unconscious lump. In the woods, when it was done, the girls held each other and cried, half out of their minds, afraid of what the world was going to do to them. They were barefoot. The man lay in the woods for three days, covered with tree bark and leaves, half in life, half in death. He was not a rich man, but he was white. So when the law discovered him, dead or alive, it would do everything to find out what had happened to him. I got a chair for Miss Agatha. Once seated, she pulled out her hat pins and took off her hat, a modest thing with a veil pulled back over it, black like her dress and black like her old-lady shoes with Cuban heels. A woman’s boy child deserved more than one year of mourning. “I have waited and I done called the police,” Miss Agatha said. “I just wanna know who hurt my boy so I can put my mind to rest. I’ll leave the punishin up to God. But I must know. I even talked to a colored policeman at No. 2. You’d think a colored policeman would help me.” “Trust what they do, Aggie, not the color of their skin, is what I say,” Aunt Penny said. “You put a Negro workin round white folks and he starts forgettin.” “Miss Agatha, I’m no detective,” I said, looking first at her and then at my mother. I had been in the military police in Korea, doing nothing. Lording it over some Southern cracker for a bit. Helping drunks back to their tents and thinking myself blessed if I didn’t get puked on. But murder was a dance on the more complicated side of life. And I, a veteran hearing Alaska singing, didn’t want to ask any big questions and didn’t want anybody asking me any big questions. I was twenty-four and just starting to dance away on the easy side—a little soft-shoe here, a little soft-shoe there. “You know a lot more than them fools at No. 2,” Aunt Penny said. Working in Sam Jaffe’s office, I wanted to say, wasn’t the same as finding a killer. Sam, a lawyer, did some private-detective work, and I sometimes went along with him when I wasn’t filing. But mostly I just filed. A veteran doing ABCs. “You the only thing close to the law we got,” my mother said. “Talk to Aggie. Listen to what she got to say. You know her. She was there when I birthed you.” “Whatever you can do would be good,” Miss Agatha said. “It all just worries the heart so much. It worries the mind. I can’t sleep at night. A few crumbs of why would be better than what I’m gnawin on now.” She took off one glove and put her hand over mine. Flesh must meet flesh, my mother had taught her sons. Never shake hands with your glove on. Miss Agatha’s husband had died of a stroke four years ago. She was wearing her wedding ring, and it was shiny and unmarred. “He’ll help us, Aggie. Don’t worry bout that,” Aunt Penny said, putting both hands on Miss Agatha’s shoulders. “They gonna pay, whoever did it.” Since Sam had left for Israel on business, I’d been leaning back in my chair facing that giant window onto F Street and imagining returning to Washington with Alaska gold. I saw myself walking down M Street, strutting about New York Avenue, my pockets bulging with nuggets, big pockets, big as some boy’s pockets fat with candy—your Mary Janes, your Squirrel Nuts, your fireballs. It was my mother who came up with the idea of the three of them leaving Alabama. It was late evening of the day she and my aunt had beaten the white man. He still lay in the woods, alone except for what animals came, sniffed, and walked over him. All the Negroes who had any business knowing knew what had happened, but not a white soul knew. At first, the Negroes understood, the law would be thinking the culprit was a stranger from someplace else; it was a nice world the law and its people thought they had in Choctaw, Alabama, and coloreds in that place didn’t do bad things to white people, whom the law was built to protect. The families of the three girls were sitting and standing around the parlor in Miss Agatha’s house. She was in her father’s arms on the settee. The youngest children were being fed in the kitchen. My grandfather, arms crossed and leaning in the doorway, said that the men in that room should go out and kill the white man if he wasn’t dead already. “Finish him for good,” he said. “I’ll kill him with my own hands and be done with it.” No one said anything for some time. One boogeyman erased forever from a child’s life was tempting, and in the quiet their hearts reached for it. But everyone in that room feared God and wanted one day to sit in the aura of his majesty. And they wanted to be able to sit there in the happy company of my grandfather. That could not happen if he came before God with murder on his hands. “Morris, we won’t have no talk of that,” my grandfather’s mother said eventually. She was sitting at the back of the room in a cane-bottomed chair, leaning over in the chair because she breathed best that way. She was not fifty years out of slavery. She was five years from death. She had seen death following her for more than three years. “Do it or leave me be.” “Then what kinda talk is we gonna have, Mama?” “Not none of my son goin out and killin somebody in cold blood.” My grandfather’s mother raised her head and looked at her son. Her walking stick, with a series of snakes carved into it, was across her lap. Someone had sent for the preacher, but he hadn’t arrived. He was a drinking man and Sunday was the only day he could be counted on. Miss Agatha had been attacked on a Wednesday. My grandfather smiled. “In hot blood, then, Mama. I’ll kill him in hot blood.” “Do nothin, Morris,” my grandfather’s mother said. “You can’t kill in Aggie’s name. What would become of her? Ask yoself that, son. What would become of Aggie? What would become of your own chirren if you had your way with him? What would come of Penny and Bertha if you killed that man?” “A moll is gav vain ah rev und ah rabbit sin,” I said as I listened to the three women go back down the stairs. I watched them walk the few steps to Eighth Street and turn the corner, heading to Kann’s Department Store. It was the Sabbath, so Sam’s wife, Dvera, was not upstairs in the back office. She and I rarely spoke, and I had never been up to the third floor. She made me nervous, moving about in her silence with those fat ankles. I called my brother, whom Sam had encouraged to become a lawyer. He might know where I should start to look for a murderer. His wife, Joanne, told me he was out. Joanne was pregnant. A root worker had had Joanne throw ten hair pins up in the air and have them fall on one of Joanne’s head scarves. Examining the pattern of the fallen pins, the root worker predicted that Joanne would be having twin girls. The news excited my mother like nothing else I’d seen. I didn’t care. I was not a man to suffer the company of children. Joanne said, “I’ll have Freddy get in touch.” “No,” I said. “I guess it can wait.” Lying naked in her bed beside me, Sheila Larkin had said two months ago, “I’ll wait for you until you return from Alaska, man. I’ll wait.” At about four, I closed the office and drove to Mojo’s in my Ford, the only meaningful thing I had bought with my Army money, taking the route I thought would best help me to avoid Sheila Larkin. I had been very successful in avoiding Sheila since I’d broken up with her. I knew how vicious she could be. I did not want to go to Alaska with a face scarred by lye. At Mojo’s, on North Capitol just up from New York Avenue, Mojo’s wife, Harriet, told me he was away. I had a few sips of beer at the bar, and when Mary Saunders and Blondelle Steadman came in I followed them to a booth. They had been in my brother’s class at Dunbar High School. I once thought I loved Mary. “What you out and about for on a nice Saturday, soldier man?” Mary said. She had come from Jamaica when she was about twelve and Jamaica was still there when she talked. “Hear Alaska was calling you. You done had all our women and now you want theirs.” They were sharing a cherry Coke. “Still going, but I have to do a few things fore I leave. Yall member Ike?” Blondelle nodded, and Mary drank some Coke. “Miss Agatha want me to find out who did it.” They laughed. It went on for a good minute. They had been together for many years, so that now one woman sounded like the other. Blondelle called to Harriet behind the bar. “Heard the latest? Soldier man’s now a detective man. Like in the picture show.” Harriet held a glass up to the light to see how clean she had gotten it. “Next he’ll be a rocket-ship man, heh?” There were four women drinking milkshakes at the bar. “The problem you have is everybody in the world hated Ike,” Mary said. “Except his mother and his wife. They had to like him, had to love him.” When I was a sophomore at Dunbar and Mary was a senior, my brother told me I had nothing to lose by asking her out. “But after them two,” she said, “what you should do is close your eyes and put your finger on a list of names. Whichever one you pick, thas who did it.” I followed Mary from school one day in April. She was walking with Blondelle, who wouldn’t peel off so I could be alone with Mary and ask her out. In the end, I just went up to Mary and asked to speak to her private-like. When I was done, she went over to Blondelle and said, “Would you mind if he and I went out?” “I would indeed,” said Blondelle, who didn’t seem mad, didn’t sound upset. My brother kept a lot about the world from me. “If I had told you,” he said to me later, “it wouldn’t be the same as finding out yourself.” “Miss Agatha’s in pain,” I said. “We love Miss Aggie,” Blondelle said. “So we wish we could help, but we have nothin.” She wore glasses, and it struck me for the first time ever that she was pretty. How had I missed that? The April day that Mary told me no, she took my hand and held it long enough for me to know that there should be no hard feelings. Blondelle walked away. Mary kissed my mouth. There was a pleasant smell I came to associate with all colored women. If a man is to be rejected by a woman, he should be rejected by a woman like Mary, for then he might not be bitter about women. Blondelle was saying, “You know what a devil Ike could be. You could accuse anybody in Washington.” She sighed. “You have a high mountain to climb. And even if you do find the person, you gotta go back down that mountain and tell it to Miss Aggie.” She drank. “You been to where they killed him?” “What?” “Where he was killed? He lived downstairs from Miss Aggie. The second-floor place.” “I ain’t been there.” “They didn’t teach you that in detective school?” Mary said. Blondelle killed the Coke. “They never taught you to visit the scene of the crime? You should use some a that mother wit you was born with.” Blondelle said to Mary, “Oh, you know the private-dick people don’t like using mother wit. That would be too much like right.” I blinked and then blinked again. The white woman, lying across the streetcar tracks in the middle of New Jersey Avenue, was the first woman I had ever seen die. I never saw one woman die in Korea. Not one. Zetcha kender lock gadank za tira vos ear lair rent doe. It was near on seven o’clock when I got to Mr. and Mrs. Fleming’s house on Sixth Street, where I was renting a room. It was late September, and though there was some sun left I didn’t want to visit a dead man’s place with night coming on. In Korea I had got used to dead men everywhere, but that was different from one dead man on a street where I had grown up. I had played with that dead man when he wasn’t either of those things. I had been a happy boy on M Street. I took a nap, and as soon as I stepped through the dream door the dead white woman was waiting for me. She was alive again. She had a child on either side of her, and I kept thinking that those children would help me to save her, help me to keep her always alive. I called Freddy on the Flemings’ telephone when I woke, but he hadn’t returned. On Sunday, I cleaned my room and went to Ike’s apartment, at 423 M Street. First I visited Miss Agatha on the third floor. She was glad to see me and I was glad for that. When I told her what I wanted to do, she gave me the key to her son’s place below her. She herself hadn’t seen the apartment since the night she and Alona, his wife, five months pregnant then, had found Ike. The landlord had had trouble renting the place even after it was cleaned up, Miss Agatha said, and no one had lived there since; colored people believed dead people should stay dead, but they also knew that dead people tended to follow their own minds. Clinging to Miss Agatha’s dress was her granddaughter, not quite two years old. “Hi,” the kid kept saying to me. “Hi hi.” I nodded to her and went downstairs. I turned the key every which way, but the door refused to give, and I finally had to push my way in with such force that the place shook. I flicked on the light, though the sun coming through the bare windows should have been all a man needed. I looked at my watch and sighed. There was furniture, but I figured it was show furniture the landlord had put there to entice a possible tenant. A cheap snapshot of Ike and Alona was taped to the icebox. In the picture, sepia, torn at one corner, Alona was smiling, but Ike, wherever they were, looked sombre. Alona had a determined look. Perhaps she had been trying to get Ike to smile. For some reason, there was only one chair at the table. At first, I thought this chair facing the window was the one Ike had been sitting in when the guy shot him in the back of the head. But with all the blood and stuff there must have been, this couldn’t be the death chair. In the bedroom there was a stripped-down double bed. At the head of the bed, on the left side, where a pillow would have been, I saw the faint brown ghost of blood. I knew that Ike wouldn’t have moved from that kitchen table once he was hit, so it was blood from another event. In the bathroom there was a rather large bottle of Mercurochrome and three bottles of iodine in the medicine cabinet and, under the sink, a pasteboard box with bandages. There was also half a box of Kotex. I sighed again. I shook the pasteboard box and clumps of hair appeared from under the bandages. What could the landlord have been thinking, leaving all that shit there? I returned to the kitchen. Whoever had cleaned it had done a good job. The apartment could have been rented if someone saw that room and didn’t know its history. I stood in the middle of the kitchen and turned around and around, looking at everything as critically as I could for long seconds. I had no goddam idea what the hell I was doing. Miss Agatha gave me sweet-potato pie when I went back up. Alona was also at the table, holding the child. “Hi hi,” the kid kept saying to me. The pie was good, but it wasn’t reward enough for having to put up with that child. “They say you’re going to Alaska,” Alona said once I was midway through the pie. I nodded. She had been one of the smartest students Dunbar had ever known, destined for things that I, with my average brain, could never imagine. “Hi hi,” the child said. In her junior year Alona had fallen in, as my mother would have said, with Ike, and after that she was walking around on the plain old earth just like me and everybody else the Dunbar teachers never cooed over. Alona said, “I once read a Life magazine article about a man in Alaska who was seeking solitude. He made a place for himself that was eighty miles in any direction from other people. He lived there for twenty years.” “That ain’t for me,” I said. “I need bodies around.” “Hi hi,” the girl said. I waved to her. I was nearing the end of the pie. I wanted another piece and wondered if it would be worth it to put up with her. Alona grinned. “You might try something like that when you get there. If the gold doesn’t pan out, try it and write to me.” There was something positive in the way she was talking, as if she had been to Alaska, looked around, and knew things would go good for me there. “Alona’s decided to go on to Howard, go to college,” Miss Agatha said. “Mama’s always bragging on whatever I do.” “You deserve braggin on, child,” Miss Agatha said. “You know how much I believe in you, honey.” She said to me, “Alona’s my future.” “Whatcha gonna be takin up?” I said, the way my mother would. “I haven’t decided,” she said, and she looked a bit dreamy-like, like a man thinking about all the gold in his pockets. “I’ll decide down the road. Won’t I, sweetums? Won’t I, sweetums?” She stood the child up on her lap and kissed her face until she collapsed in laughter. After a bit, the child got down from Alona’s lap and scurried off to the living room. Alona stood up. “Have some more pie,” she said. “It was as good as usual, Mama,” and she put her arms around Miss Agatha and kissed her cheek and left. “I don’t know what I would do without her,” Miss Agatha said. “Son, you find somethin down there?” She pointed her index finger down. “I can’t say, ma’am, cause I’m just startin out. But I plan to keep on it. Don’t worry bout that.” “He was into some things I would never appreciate, I have to tell you.” I nodded. “But towards the end I think he was tryin to get hisself together. Tryin to make things right with Alona, with the baby comin and all, you know. I’m sure it woulda been a new day for him.” She swept a few crumbs from the table into her hand and then brushed them with the other hand into her empty coffee cup. Watching the crumbs fall, I wanted to do the very best I could for her. “You might hear some bad things bout Ike. I can’t testify to that. People tend not to lie bout a dead man, so I can’t testify to anything they say. All I can say is that even if he was the Devil hisself he was still mine. I gave him life.” “Yes, ma’am.” I got up and took my plate and fork to the sink, the way I had been taught. I ran hot water onto the plate. “I’d best get on, Miss Agatha, but I’ll be back workin on things tomorrow.” “Maybe you shouldna been workin today, on the Lord’s day. God might not appreciate it.” I went home to clean up before going to my mother’s for Sunday supper. Every Sunday since I had finished high school and gone out on my own, my mother had made a big fried-chicken supper for herself, my brother, and me, usually with string beans, potatoes boiled with a bit of fatback, and corn bread with crackling. An apple or peach cobbler. Every other Sunday I got to choose the Kool-Aid, and I almost always picked grape. Freddy was a lime man. After Freddy married, his wife came, too, of course, so I got to enjoy my grape Kool-Aid only every third week. Joanne was into orange Kool-Aid, which I hated. A punk flavor. God only knew what shit their twin girls would choose, but I had no plans to be around when those two started showing up and spoiling everything and putting my choice of Kool-Aid off to the fifth or sixth week. Gold could buy grape Kool-Aid every day of a man’s life. My mother had never commanded that we be there each Sunday at six. It was simply in her sons’ blood to know to show up. I suspect that if the Korean War had been fought as close as Maryland or Pennsylvania my blood would have sent me to her every Sunday. Afraid I would see Sheila Larkin, I took the long way—down Fourth Street, then along New York Avenue to Sixth Street. Afraid of lye in my face. I felt bad about her, but she wasn’t in my future. I sat on my bed in the upstairs back room and drank the last of some whiskey a friend had given me, listening to WOOK all the while. On Sundays WOOK was full of religious shit, and it always depressed the hell out of me. But I didn’t change the station. A moll is gav vain ah rav und ah rabbit sin. I put some water in the empty bottle to get the last of the juice out of it. Then I took out the booklet on Alaska and turned to page 6, the one with “little known facts about our northern neighbor.” Alaska was not even a state. Zetcha kender lock, gadank za tira vos ear lair rent doe. About a week before Sam Jaffe went to Israel, I was on the streetcar headed down New Jersey Avenue to see a friend in Northeast when I decided to get off and visit Aunt Penny and her husband, on Third Street. My car was acting hincty, so I had put it in the Ridge Street garage. Three women preceded me off the streetcar at L Street. One of them was a white woman. The first two women went on across the street to the sidewalk, but just as I was about to step down from the streetcar the white woman turned and held her arm out to me. I thought she wanted to get back on the car. I stepped down and to the side to make way. She was less than three feet from me. She took two steps toward me and began to collapse, her arm still out to me. I heard her say, “A moll is gav vain ah rev und ah rabbit sin.” I got to her before her head hit the ground. She said, “Zetcha kender lock, gadank za tira vos ear lair rent doe.” Her head was covered with a gray woollen scarf, which was much too heavy for a warm day. I could see that beneath the scarf there was a wig. I thought, If we can keep her wig in place, just the way it was when she walked out her front door, everything will be fine. Her dark-blue dress came down to her ankles. She was far too young for the old-lady black shoes she had on. I lowered her head to the ground, and just as I did she closed her eyes. I looked around for someone to help, but no one came. I kept thinking, Where in the world is that streetcar conductor? Where the hell is that man? Isn’t this his job? And then, seeing the stopped streetcar gleaming in the sun, I thought, Green and off-white are perfect colors for a streetcar. The woman struggled with each breath. I could see several colored women looking out the streetcar windows at me and the white woman. I tilted her head back and tried to give her breath, the way the Army had taught me. My mother had always told my brother and me that if she ever caught us kissing a white woman she would cut off our lips. “You ever try coolin soup with no lips? Try it and see. It won’t work. That soup will never cool and you’ll starve to death.” For a long time, I tried to help the woman, but I began to see that only the breath of God could help her. Would that white streetcar conductor show up and think that I was trying something untoward? Would he try to kill me for doing the right thing? Try coolin that tomato soup yall love with no lips. Try it and see what it gets you boys. Three of the colored women on the streetcar came to us and knelt down. One caressed the white woman’s cheek. “It’s all right, son,” the colored woman said. I saw then that the white woman was dead. “You done your best. At least you walked with her all the rest a the way.” In the end, I laid the white woman’s head down on the ground, but a human head on metal tracks and concrete in the middle of a city street seemed so out of place that I put my hand under her head again. By and by, the dead woman let go of my other hand and one of the colored women soon put her own hand under her head where mine had been. Another of the women took a new sweater with the tag still on it out of a Hecht’s bag and put it under the white woman’s head. I stood up. Traffic up and down New Jersey Avenue had stopped, and on any other day that would have been something to see. I went to the sidewalk and then I turned and went down L Street toward Northeast, which wasn’t the way to my aunt’s. Eventually, after a long time, I found my way to my mother’s house. She fixed me something to eat, and though I didn’t tell her about the white woman she saw how the hot food just went cold lying on the plate and said I should sleep at her place that night. I said I would go on home, but my mother said I would do no such thing. I woke up Monday morning with the dead white woman speaking in my head. A moll and a rabbit . . . As I looked at my face in the mirror while I shaved, it came to me that I might not ever be able to get the voice out of my head. When my great-grandfather was a slave, a patroller who owned no slaves and little more than what he was wearing killed a slave who was coming back from seeing his wife on another plantation. The dead man had been my ancestor’s best friend. My great-grandfather called himself by the dead man’s name forever after that, and no one, not even his wife and seven children, could move him from it. I have that dead man’s name. Way down in Choctaw, Alabama, there are two names on my great-grandfather’s tombstone. Two dates of birth and two dates of death. I didn’t do much about finding Ike’s murderer until the next Sunday. I spent some of that week getting stuff together at Sam’s office. The rest of the time I just hung out at Mojo’s. I didn’t take Miss Agatha’s advice about resting on the Lord’s day and went out that Sunday morning after breakfast to do what I could. My Ford was acting up again, so I left it in front of the house. I went up Sixth Street. There was a big crowd around Daddy Grace’s church, but I didn’t see anyone I knew. I turned onto M. Sheila Larkin slept very late on Sunday, so I wasn’t afraid of meeting her. I knocked at the front first-floor apartment in Miss Agatha’s building. A woman opened the door, and as soon as she did a mynah bird in a giant cage behind her gave a wolf whistle, quite distinct and quite loud. It was about twelve o’clock; Sheila was stretching in her bed, wondering if today was the day she would get me. After I told the woman who I was and what I wanted, she opened the door wider to let me in. She was wearing a housecoat. She could have been thirty or forty. I was getting better at determining a woman’s age, but I wasn’t yet good enough to tell about her. She was good-looking, and she would be that way for a long while. “Oh, yes! Oh, yes! Just like that!” the bird said. The woman pointed to an easy chair for me to sit in, and sat across from me on a couch with cushions that had deep impressions. Somebody had sat on those things and the cushions had never got over it. She said her name was Minnie Parsons. “I ain’t sure what I can tell you,” Miss Minnie said, crossing her legs. “I talked to some colored cop a day or so after it happened. He asked me questions, but he seemed more interested in Billie, there. ‘How you make it talk?’ he kept sayin. ‘How you get him to say all that?’ He didn’t seem to care much about poor Ike.” “I’m only flesh and blood!” Billie said. She said she knew Ike “only in passin,” and as she crossed and recrossed her legs something told me that it wasn’t true. “I knew Alona better. And Miss Agatha’s like my own mother.” Her apartment was well kept, pictures of children on the walls, pictures of adults in Sunday clothes on the mantelpiece. On the wall behind the couch there was just a cross, with Jesus’ head hanging down, because he had given up the ghost. The obligatory cloth covered his privates. The nails through his hands and feet were painted red. No blood. “You at No. 2?” Miss Minnie said. “No, ma’am.” I told her I wasn’t a detective and had just been in the military police in Korea. “Don’t treat me like I’m that old,” she said. “Don’t go yes-ma’aming me. I ain’t old. You want somethin to drink?” I said no. “My husband was in the Army,” she said after a bit. “He was a cook. Still a good cook. Can’t you tell?” She leaned to the side and slapped her thigh. “Like that?” the bird asked. I asked her if she had been home the night Ike was killed. She said that she had but that she heard nothing. She knew Miss Agatha had been out, maybe at church. She didn’t know where Alona was. “Ain’t no book that girl ain’t read. . . . I heard Miss Agatha come in and go upstairs. It wasn’t long before I heard both of them screamin. The whole buildin shook with them screamin.” “That a girl bird or a boy bird?” I asked. She considered Billie for a while as it hopped down to the floor of the cage, stuck its head through the bars of the cage door, and looked to the left. “I’m only flesh and blood! I’m only flesh and blood!” “I don’t really know,” Miss Minnie said. “Could be either. A woman once told me she could come and turn Billie upside down and inspect Billie’s natural parts and then say one way or another, but I never sent for her. I suspect Billie’s a girl.” “Oh.” “A woman knows when another woman’s in her nest.” “There’s more to come, somebitch!” Billie said. Miss Minnie didn’t react at all to the bad word, and I remembered my mother once saying that a woman comfortable around curse words would be comfortable around the Devil. I was ready to go. Miss Minnie said, as I stood up, “I will say that in my dealins with Ike he treated me with the utmost respect. Now, my husband . . . Hal didn’t care for Ike too much. Billie liked him, though, cause she doesn’t discriminate.” She crossed her legs the other way again. “Would you like somethin to eat? Wouldn’t be no trouble to heat up a little somethin.” “No, ma’am.” “Oh, yes! Oh, yes! Just like that!” “What I done told you bout that ma’am stuff?” “Your husband comin back soon?” “Oh?” she said. “Whatcha mean by ‘soon’?” She laughed. “He just went to the store for somethin for breakfast. But he always stays long enough to be out to butcher the pig and collect the eggs. He’ll be gone a long time. He slow that way.” I left, went down to the corner of M and Fourth, and stood there so I could see into Leon’s store. The only man in it came out with a medium-sized paper bag and was walking on crutches. One of his legs had been cut off below the knee, while the other had been cut off above the knee. I watched him cross the street to my side and move past me so silently that if I hadn’t seen him with my own eyes I wouldn’t have known he was there. No huffing and puffing, no rattling from the paper bag, no sound from the crutches hitting the sidewalk. Just a nothing spiriting on down the street. He looked mean and tough, but maybe that was just me trying to compensate for a fellow-veteran who had lost so much. He said something to a little girl coming the other way and went into Miss Minnie’s building. I got to the building and asked the little girl, who was holding an even smaller girl by the hand, if she knew the man. “Everybody know Mr. Hal,” the girl said. I went through the files in my memory trying to recall if that was what Miss Minnie had called her husband. I couldn’t remember at all. Billie, I knew, was the bird’s name, because she had mentioned the thing many times. “Mr. Hal married to Miss Minnie, right?” I said to the girl. The girls looked at each other and laughed. “Evbody know that,” the smaller girl said. “How come you don’t know that?” “Forget him,” the older girl said, and before the girls went off she twirled her index finger around and around an inch from her ear. “Yeah,” she said. “Just forget him if he don’t know that. I bet he don’t even know Mr. Hal ain’t got no legs.” “Forget him anyway,” the smaller girl said. I stood outside the building, trying to decide if I should give Hal a pass on murdering Ike based on the crutches. I didn’t have anybody else to suspect right then, so I kept him in my mental suspect files. Miss Agatha had let me keep the key to her son’s place, but I decided against going back up there, lest she hear me and I have to tell her I’d found out nothing yet. I felt as helpless as the day I first inspected Ike’s apartment. Sheila Larkin had her cup of coffee in her hand by now, was probably looking out her N Street window, thinking about me. I left off detective work and took the long way home. Mojo’s was closed on Sunday. It was just as well. My mother always knew if I’d had even a drop of something before showing at her place for supper. Sometimes I gave a shit and sometimes I didn’t and would drink before going to her. “You been drinkin,” she had stated that last Sunday even before opening the door. That was all she talked about the rest of the evening. Then she dredged up ancient history: A month after I came back from Korea, I was still celebrating. One Tuesday I drank heavily at a friend’s place, in the Augusta apartments at New York and New Jersey Avenues, only two blocks up from where the white woman would die. I made a mistake and told my buddy I could walk home all right. I got out to the corner at about three in the morning and dropped down on the sidewalk. Actually, I dropped more in the street than on the sidewalk. In those days, most of D.C. was asleep at that time of the night, so there wasn’t any traffic to run over me. The street was warm, and all that warmth told me to take a nap. Man, just nap. Where the old lady came from at that time of the morning I’ll never know. But after she roused me I could see through all the alcohol that she was dressed like she was going to church. At three in the morning on a weekday. “Ain’t you Bertha’s baby boy? Ain’t you Penny’s nephew?” she asked after I managed to raise my head. Nap on, boy, just nap on. “You Bertha’s boy?” Even in the feeble street lights, I could see, up and through that glorious haze, that I had never seen that woman before in my life. “Ain’t you Bertha’s boy? Got a brother name Freddy that married Dolley and Pritchard’s girl? You Bertha’s boy what went to Korea? Ain’t yall’s pastor Reverend Dr. Miller over at Shiloh Baptist?” Hearing the lady talking, my buddy came down and they got me back up to his place. The old lady disappeared, and I never saw her again. My mother bided her time. One Sunday, three months later, after I said something “mannish” at supper, she brought up the drunk scene for the first time, told me what I was wearing down to the color of my socks, told me about the “ratty furniture” in every room of my friend’s apartment, told me how many empty bottles were on the kitchen table, about the half-naked woman on the couch. The drunken dog staggering from room to room. “Your life won’t be nothin but a long Tuesday night of devilment—Tuesday night and all day Wednesday . . . Kissin Miss Hattie’s hand with them drunken lips.” She went on for some thirty minutes, her voice never rising above a conversational tone. When she was finished, she pointed at my brother and then at the potatoes, which meant he was to pass them over to me. It was an orange-Kool-Aid Sunday. Joanne never said a mumbling word. When I showed at my mother’s place on L Street at about four, Joanne and her big belly full of twins were there, my brother having dropped her off and gone to pick up something at the law library. We sat in the living room. I must say this: my mother never treated her living rooms like she was saving them for Jesus Christ to visit. No plastic slip coverings and shit. “The key word in livin room is livin,” she used to say, so wherever we were the living room was as comfortable for Freddy and me as our own room. “Mama, is there anything you can tell me bout this Ike thing? Somethin Miss Agatha didn’t tell me?” We were drinking grape Kool-Aid. “I don’t think I can, son. He was troubled. I was there when he was born, and Ike came into the world full of trouble, God rest his soul.” Joanne was beside her on the couch, looking real satisfied with herself. “Son, you know all I know. You know he was into that . . . that mess.” She pointed at the crook in her arm and made a needle with her finger. “I lived fifty years before I knew a colored person doin that. And it was somebody like a son to me.” I perked up. My mother said, “What is the world coming to, Joanne? But he always ‘Yes, ma’amed’ and ‘No, ma’amed’ me, I will give him that. And he wasn’t no parrot, either, so he meant it when he said it. He was brought up right. His mama and daddy saw to that. But boys have a way of turnin into men, and then they sell their mother wit for thirty pieces of silver.” “Mama, you never told me Ike was doin that. Miss Agatha never told me, either.” “Son, how easy you think it is to tell anybody that your child has fallen far from the height you worked to put him on? How many people would I want to blab to bout your drinkin and foolishness? Not that people don’t know already.” “But I’m tryin to find out who did that to her son and she didn’t give me all the facts.” “Well, you got all the facts.” I went for more Kool-Aid and drank it at the kitchen window. She had raised my brother and me in Northwest, mainly around M Street, where Miss Agatha lived. Her new apartment was half a block past North Capitol Street, her first venture into Northeast. Slowly, place by place, my mother was trying to put herself midway between where I lived, on Sixth Street, and where my brother and Joanne lived, in Anacostia. My brother saw Anacostia one day when he was nine—the hills, the Anacostia River, the indescribable pleasantness, the way the wind came up over the river as if straight from the cooling mouth of God—and he vowed then that he would live there when he became a man. I, too, saw the place that day, but all I remembered was the chickens running around. And the little white pig lounging under the shade tree. I filled my glass again. Women. The evening of the day the white man attacked Miss Agatha, it was my mother who suggested that she, nearing eight, and my aunt, well past nine, and Miss Agatha, fourteen, go far away before the law came to get them. My grandfather and my grandmother, still in the doorway, thought it was the worst thing they had ever heard. But as the evening darkness came in and they lit the lamps and the candles and as the white man lay in the woods, they all knew the law would descend upon them. The law might even raise their dead and make them pay as well. Along about midnight, after everyone had embraced them, the girls set out in two wagons, with my grandfather and his brother and Miss Agatha’s father and his brothers. The men were armed. By late morning, the girls were near the Georgia border. By the morning of the next day, driven by other male relatives and friends, they were well through Georgia. It took a week for them to get into North Carolina, carried by new wagons and horses driven by other relatives and friends. The girls’ belongings, what few there were, were always in the first wagon, and the girls, huddled together, were always in the second. All along the way, Miss Agatha cried to her companions that she was sorry for doing this to them. “Forgive me,” she said. “It ain’t nothin but a little bitty old thing,” my mother kept saying. Within two weeks, after wearing out four pairs of wagons and three teams of horses, they were in Washington, at the home of my grandfather’s cousin. He and his family were waiting. A week before, he had received a telegram: “Package arriving.” When I returned to the living room, my mother was saying, “Now, he”—and she pointed at me—“wasn’t too much trouble comin out, but, oh, your husband was too much, Joanne. Two days. Two long days. I’m bound for Heaven cause I’ve had my hell right here in Washington, D.C. But I will say”—and she pointed to me again—“that he made up for that easy birth by havin his share a colic. And, when he slept, he slept kinda like this,” and my mother leaned her head to the side with one eye open and one eye shut. “I had to keep one eye on you,” I said. She didn’t miss a beat: “I hope you still sleep that way cause I ain’t finished with you yet, boy. Just wait. Just you wait.” Then to Joanne: “You see what war does? It makes a man lose all natural fear of his mother. Be thankful you havin girls.” I sat back in the chair with my Kool-Aid. They went on talking like that, my mother and my sister-in-law and her twin girls just dying to come out. There is a moment that a man hungers for when he’s boozing—the conductor has already escorted him to the best seat on the train. This happens somewhere, depending on the alcohol, along about the fifth sip. The view from that window is extraordinary; God knew his business that day. A woman sits across from him and only when he looks out the window does she look away. Otherwise, her eyes are always on him. Her blouse is tight and she shows just enough cleavage not to make herself out to be a tramp. He takes another sip, and emphatic waves of warmth come over him. The woman crosses her legs. She is not wearing old-lady stockings. Hers are sheer nylon, so the man can bear witness to the miracle of her legs. He raises his glass and tries to decide whether to look again at her legs or out the window at what God made just for him. I went in to the office on Monday morning to continue clearing up. I was missing Sam, who had soothing words for every bad occasion. I worked away and all the while recited aloud the dead white woman’s words. A moll is gav vain ah rav und ah rabbit sin. Zetcha kender lock gadank za tire vos ear lair rent doe. I was nearing completion of the “S” files when I felt someone watching me. I turned around. Sam’s wife, Dvera, was standing in the doorway. She was crying. I stood and asked if it was bad news about Sam. She took a while, but she eventually shook her head and covered her mouth with both hands. She continued to cry. I stayed near the window. This was all I needed before Alaska: a white woman crying and no witnesses to my innocence. After several minutes, she pulled out a handkerchief that was tucked into her sleeve, and she stopped crying. “I’m sorry,” she said. “It’s been a long time since I heard those words.” I didn’t understand. I looked at the floor, but felt safe enough to put down the papers I was holding. “They were my father’s words, his way of beginning stories to me. All his stories started that way. He used to tell me stories when the world got too much. Comforting, you know. Keeping the world away.” I nodded. This was more than she had ever said to me in all the time I had been working there. Sometimes one moment sweeps aside everything you ever thought about a person. “Where did you hear those words?” she asked. I told her about the white woman. “I remember hearing about her, but I didn’t know you were there.” She looked long at me and said, “Let me see something.” She turned with her fat ankles and went upstairs. I wanted to leave now. Files or no files. The dead woman’s words were loud in my head. Dvera Jaffe came back after about an hour. “Miriam Sobel,” she said. “She was in my brother’s congregation. For a week they didn’t know what had happened to her. Young as she was, her mind had been going for a long time. She would disappear at times, trying to get back to Russia, back home.” Now that I had a name to go with my memory, her dying words were louder than ever. In my head, the woman Miriam Sobel rose up and stood in the streetcar tracks, just as she had before she began to fall, and set her wig in place. The end of it all came rather quickly after that. On Thursday, I went to Mojo’s. I asked Mojo’s wife who might have supplied Ike’s stuff. Harriet had a quick answer—a man named Fish Eyes. “But he died two months ago. If you thinkin what I think you’re thinkin, you could be right,” she said. “Fish Eyes would kill God if he owed him money. He went back to Georgia, where he had people. God’s cancer took a long time killin him.” By then I had talked to about fifteen people and I was tired of Ike and his murder. I wanted Alaska. I took a beer and sat in a booth and mumbled Miriam Sobel’s last words. Not the mixed-up English ones I thought she had said but the Yiddish. “Amohl iz gevayn a rov und a rebbetzin.” The English had died the moment Dvera told me the Yiddish. “Zet zhe, kinderlach, gedenk-zhe, teireh, vos ir lert’ doh.” After a second beer, I began fashioning a story that would let me go off to Alaska with as clear a conscience as a man like me could expect. I figured it wouldn’t hurt anyone if I told Miss Agatha that it had probably been Fish Eyes who killed Ike. One bad man had killed another. That sounded good, and the first sip of the third beer confirmed it. After four beers, I left Mojo’s happy and headed down New York Avenue. I crossed First Street, passing Dunbar’s field. I was nearing Kirby Street when Sheila Larkin and one of her many sisters came out of Kirby, heading toward me. They were only yards away. There was too much daylight for me to turn around and dash across New York Avenue. Damn! Damn! I kept thinking. The women walked on toward me, their arms linked, talking to each other as if their conversation were all that mattered. Well, I thought, we might as well get this shit over with right here and now. I hurried to compose what I would say: “I just felt like gettin on with somethin else in my life, Sheila. It ain’t really about you. I just gotta disentangle before Alaska.” If she tried to hit me, I decided, I would let her get in one lick, but no more than that. My time with her was worth one lick, I figured. Any more than one and it was going to be war. They were about five feet away, and Sheila still hadn’t noticed me. We all kept on. Then, in a moment, she and her sister were past me. And it wasn’t as if they had unlocked arms and walked around me, or stayed arm in arm and walked together around me to the left or the right. It was simply as if they had walked through me, still talking, still arm in arm. It was like a blow to the chest. It took my breath away, and I leaned over to pull myself together. That didn’t help, and I stood up straight and found myself stumbling, struggling. I kept thinking it might help to know what their conversation was about. I went on a few feet more, and at last I sat on the curb at Kirby. The world took its sweet time righting itself, and I began to wish that I was on my train and the conductor was asking me, “Sir, may I fill your glass again?” Forget all of them, I thought, forget Miss Agatha and Sheila and her billions of sisters and forget my mother and Joanne with her belly full of girls. Forget every bitch that ever lived. Forget ’em! Just go to Alaska, where a man could be a real man without any bullshit. I looked at my watch, at the second hand going round and round. I pulled out the crown a tad and the second hand stopped, just waited for me to start things up again. I told the conductor, “No.” I saw Miss Agatha at her kitchen table brushing crumbs into her hand and she said she was sorry. I told her it ain’t nothin but a little bitty old thing. I stood outside Miss Agatha’s apartment door, resolved to tell her that it had been Fish Eyes. He was in Hell, anyway, so he wouldn’t care—what’s another twenty years in an eternity of fire? My mother would have had something to say about that, about lying on someone sitting in Hell on a two-legged stool with his ankles crossed, but I didn’t care. I was about to knock when I decided to go back down to Ike’s place. I planned to tell Miss Agatha that I had gone over the place four times, and two real visits would make it easier to lie. This time the door opened without any trouble. I gave a perfunctory look to every room, then went to the kitchen. How far, I wondered with a little curiosity, had Ike’s brain matter travelled after he was shot? I took a good look at the room’s new paint and realized now what a shoddy job it was. I pulled out my pocketknife and scraped off paint around the kitchen window and began to see that someone had merely painted over the blood and everything else that had come out of Ike’s head. I stepped back and then back some more. Fuck! Who would do such a shitty job of making over the place? No wonder Miss Agatha couldn’t sleep at night—her son was still up and about just below her head. I opened the window and saw browned blood out on the edge of the sill. Why here, when the window should have been closed on the January night he was killed? And what power was in that blood for it to hang on for nearly two years? I went out onto the fire escape and climbed up to Miss Agatha’s place. Even after all the snow and sun and rain and time, there were faint bits of brown mid-way up the window frame, as if someone with bloody hands, just last night, had held on to it to steady himself before entering the apartment. Blood spilled with violence never goes away, I remembered my mother teaching Freddy and me, and you can see it if you have a mind to. I raised the window. Immediately, Alona’s kid came up to the window. “Hi hi,” she said, raising her hand to me. I looked at the other side of the frame and saw more bits of brown and there, at the frame, it all stopped. “Hi hi.” I adjusted my eyes and looked into the kitchen and saw Alona watching me. Her arms were folded across her breasts, her legs slightly apart. I looked at both sides of the frame again. Seeing Alona standing there, impervious for all eternity, I was suddenly chilled in every part of my body. “Hi hi,” the kid said. “Hi hi.” Mountains did not stand the way Alona stood. Dear God, I thought, dear God. Of all Ike’s crimes against her, what had been the final one? I became aware that in only a few steps Alona could be at the window and one powerful push could send me toppling over the fire escape. I became afraid. “Hi hi.” The kid kept holding her hand up to me, so I took her hand and I let her help me into the room. The child was named for Miss Agatha. “Hi hi,” she said. “Hi, ” I said. The white man who tried to drag Miss Agatha off into the woods when she was a child was never the same again, not in mind, not in body. He awoke in the woods three days later, caked with blood from head to toe, and picked himself up from what all the Negroes had believed was his deathbed. He spent his life saying he had been attacked by “somethin from God, somethin big, big like this.” God called him into preaching, but each sentence he spoke for the rest of his life had no relation to the one before it or to the one after it. He found a home at a very tiny church with a blue door, with people who believed his speech made no sense because that was how God wanted it. Never to be translated into understandable human talk. The law stayed satisfied that it was a drifter from beyond Choctaw who had attacked him. A stranger from faraway over yonder. The law let it be, and the world the white people had made for themselves was set right again. It came to me over the next few days that I would never find gold in Alaska, not even if my life depended on it. My mother was at first silent when I told her about the blood I’d found, when I told her who had killed Ike. She set a Tuesday-night plate of food before me as I sat at her kitchen table and bade me eat. Then she sat across from me with her cup, two-thirds milk and one-third coffee. She held the cup with both hands and sipped and fought back the tears. I rose to go to her, but she held me back. “You decide what you must tell Aggie and then leave her in peace after that,” my mother commanded. “She knows what she knows. Maybe she needed someone like you in the world to know it, too. Tell her you know, if you got a mind to, and then leave us be. The only harm we ever done you was for your own good and you must not forget that.” I found a note on my desk from Dvera, Sam’s wife, when I returned two days later to the office I shared with him. The note, written in beautiful script, had a translation of Miriam Sobel’s last words: Once upon a time there was a rabbi and his wife. . . . Listen, children, remember, precious ones, what you’re learning here. . . . Funny, I said to myself. I would never have thought the words meant that just from what I heard. A moll, a rabbit, and his sin . . . I went upstairs, where I had never been, to Dvera’s back office. The door was open. From the hallway, it seemed a very small room. But, once I was inside, it felt very large indeed, with everything a woman might need to be comfortable when she’s by herself. The doilies on the couch reminded me of my mother’s living room. Just inside the door was a samovar with a brilliant shine. Dvera was on the telephone, and, as it happened, it was Sam, still in Israel. I stepped all the way into the room. Above the light switch was a calendar with the time of the sunset noted at every Friday. She waved me over and handed me the telephone. Sam said he would be sad to see me go. I did not tell him that I would see Alaska only in some third life. After I’d said a few words to him, the line began to crackle and I felt it best to tell him goodbye. I gave the telephone back to Dvera. She began closing the conversation and pointed at a photograph sticking out of a large brown envelope on her desk. Then she giggled at something Sam said and blushed. “Don’t say that over the telephone,” she said. The photograph was of Miriam Sobel, younger than the dead woman by nine and two-thirds years, give or take a day or two. Two identical boys with forelocks had hold of her hands. I took the picture to the window, where the light was better. What part would the rabbi’s wife play in the story? And, in the end, was the story really about her and not at all about the rabbi? I raised my eyes from the photograph of Miriam and saw a group of six little colored girls going down Eighth Street toward E, all of them in bright colors. My eyes settled on a girl in a yellow dress. She was in the middle of the group and she alone twirled as they walked, her arms out, her head held back, so that the sun was full upon her face. Her long plaits swung with her in an almost miraculous way. It was good to watch her, because I had never seen anything like that in Washington in my whole life. I followed her until she disappeared. It would have been nice to know what was on her mind. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Extra	Extra The New Yorker, December 22, 2003 P. 120 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a middle-aged Chinese woman who marries a widower and then goes to work as a maid at a private boarding school. Granny Lin, 51, is honorably retired from the Beijing Red Star Garment Factory. How will she find a way to replenish her dwindling savings? Auntie Wang advises her to get married to an old widower. Granny Lin had never been married before and she was frightened. Auntie Wang finds her a match with a 76-year-old widower with high blood pressure and diabetes. She moves in with her new husband, Old Tang, who, it turns out, also has Alzheimer’s. Old Tang is a quiet man, sitting in a chair by the window, immersed in his bottomless silence. Once in a while, he asks Granny Lin about his wife, and she lies, telling him she’s in the hospital. Granny Lin watches daytime soap operas and does housework. But she can’t focus because of Old Tang’s quiet presence. She suspects that he’s not really ill. She stares boldly at him until she finally gives up. Only when giving him his insulin shots does she catch a glimpse of the life left in him. Several times a day she bathes him; he is the only man she’s seen fully naked. One evening in late February, when they are both in the private bathroom, Old Tang looks directly at her and asks who she is. There’s an unnatural lucidity in his eyes––a moment of clarity which only happens before death. He pushes her and slips in a puddle of water, dying. I did not kill him, she thinks at the funeral, but doesn’t say it aloud; publicly she admits her negligence. Granny Lin doesn’t receive any inheritance. Instead, she takes a job as a maid at a private boarding school called Mei-Mei Academy. Granny Lin cleans the school and sneaks leftovers from the students’ meals. She feels overwhelmed by her good fortune. In the third month of her stay, the school celebrated the admission of its 100th student, 6-year-old Kang. He was sent to the school because he was the son of a disfavored wife. The thought of the boy saddens Granny Lin. In his second week, he starts to come to the laundry room during the afternoon to talk to Granny. One day, he tells her that his mom said she would come back for him. He circled his arms around Granny Lin’s neck; his smell reminded her of Old Tang. Granny Lin agrees to take care of Kang over the weekends, when the other kids go home. They play and take long walks, holding hands. After she tucks him into bed, she watches him, an unfamiliar warmth swelling inside her. She wonders if this is what people call falling in love. Granny Lin starts to notice socks missing from the laundry-always girls’ socks. She catches Kang clutching one. The next weekend, she searches his bed and finds five girls’ socks in his pillowcase. She goes to the city and buys several packages of girls’ socks. She becomes more careful with the laundry, but doesn’t ask Kang about the socks. One night, a boy finds Kang stroking his cheeks with the socks in bed. Soon the whole school knows, and the other kids call him “sicko.” He is no longer allowed to visit Granny in the laundry room. On the weekend, Kang is petulant and doesn’t want to play with Granny. He asks her if he can go home, but she says no. He bursts into tears and runs away. Granny searches, but can’t find him. The police and school supervisors are called. Kang shows up, unharmed. He says he fell asleep under the piano, but Granny Lin remembers looking there. Granny Lin is labeled incapable and asked to leave the school. She carries a dufflebag of all her belongings. Someone pushes her and a man runs off with her dufflebag. She sits on the street and hugs her lunch pail. Inside the pail is her 3,000 yuen dismissal compensation and several unopened packages of girls’ socks, souvenirs of her short love story. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Recuperation	He walks. Every day, he walks. That was what the doctor had said. All the doctors. Plenty of exercise, they’d told him. It was the one thing he’d really understood. —Are you a golf man, Mr. Hanahoe? —No. —Hill walking. —No. —Do you walk the dog? —No dog. He’d buried the dog a few years ago, in the back garden. —We’ll have to get you exercising. —O.K. He walks now, every day. Sundays, too. He hadn’t even liked the dog. He walks, the same way. Except maybe when it was a pup, and the kids were younger. Every day, the same way. The way he went the first day. Up the Malahide Road. Hanahoe walks. When the dog died, the kids were upset, but not upset enough to go out in the rain and dig the grave. The dog had been dying for years; the kids were living most of their time outside the house. It had been up to Hanahoe. He starts at the Artane roundabout, his back to town, facing Malahide. He starts. He’d have waited till it stopped raining, but it didn’t seem right, and it had been raining for days. So he dug in the dark. It was easy work, the ground was so wet. The spade sank nicely for him. And he dug up a rabbit. He saw it in the torchlight. A skeleton. He’d buried the rabbit years before, before the dog, after the goldfish. It takes him ten minutes to get to the Artane roundabout, but he doesn’t count that. The walk starts, the exercise starts, when he’s on the corner of Ardlea Road and the Malahide Road. He had meant to tell the kids about the rabbit. He threw it back in, on top of the dog. He’d meant to tell them about it the next morning, before work and school. It was the only time they were all together in the house. But, he remembers now as he walks, he never did tell them. And he didn’t throw the rabbit in. He lowered it on the spade, and let it slide off, onto the dog. He forgot to tell them. He thinks he forgot. He’s not sure. There are other places he could walk. There are plenty of places. He could get in the car and drive to St. Anne’s or Bull Island, or the path along the coast, or even out to Howth. But he doesn’t. He’s not sure why, just certain that he won’t. But that’s not true. He does know why; he knows exactly why. It’s people. Too many people. He got out of the habit of talking. As the kids were getting older. He put a stone slab, left over from the patio, over the dog’s grave, and then remembered that there was no dog now to dig it up. There was no need for the slab. Another thing he was going to tell the kids, and didn’t. This is the stretch that Hanahoe has chosen. Starting outside the old folks’ flats. Mount Dillon Court. He’s never seen anyone coming out of there. Old or young—a milkman or Garda, a daughter, grandchild. No one. And that suits him. He’d stop looking if he saw anyone. —Do you get down to the pub at all? —No. —The golf club. —You asked me that the last time. No. He used to. He went to the pub now and again. Once a week, twice. Sometimes after Mass. She came, too. He thought she’d liked it. He’d always thought that. A pint for him, something different for her. Gin-and-tonic, vodka-and-something, Ballygowan, Baileys. She’d never settled on one drink. And he doesn’t remember ever thinking there was anything wrong with that. He walks past the old cottages. They’re out of place there, on the dual carriageway. He walks beside the cycle path. To the newer houses. They’re on a road that runs beside the main road. They’re well back and hidden, behind old hedges and trees. If people look out at him passing every day, he doesn’t care, and he doesn’t have to. He doesn’t know them, and he won’t. He walks on the grass. The ground is hard. It hasn’t rained in a long time. He wears tracksuit bottoms. She bought them for him. They were in a bag at the end of the bed when he got home from the hospital. Champion Sports. Two tracksuits. A blue and a gray. He doesn’t wear the tops. And he won’t. He doesn’t know when she moved into their daughters’ bedroom; he’s not sure, exactly. It was empty for a while. After the eldest girl moved out, and then her sister. And then she’d moved in, after a few months. He has trainers as well, which he got himself after he came home. The first time he went out, up to Artaine Castle. There was no row or anything when she moved into the girls’ room. He doesn’t think there was. He woke up one night and she wasn’t there. And the next night he felt her getting out of bed. It was too hot, she said. The night after that, she said nothing. The night after, she went straight to the girls’ room. A few years ago. Two, three. The trainers still look new. She never came back to their room. And he never asked why not. He’s been wearing them for a month now. They still look new-white. It annoys him. Past Chanel Road. Past the Rampaí sign. He’s at the turnoff for Coolock. He looks behind, checks for cars. He’s clear, he crosses. Chanel to the left, the school. The kickboxing sign on the gate pillar. “Juniors and Seniors, Mondays and Fridays.” They’d nothing like that when his kids were younger. Kickboxing. Martial arts. Skateboarding. Nothing like that—he thinks. Hanahoe crosses the road. —Are you a joiner? —What? —Do you join? Clubs. Societies. —No. —No, yet, or no, never? He doesn’t answer. He shrugs. He used to be. He thought he was. A joiner. The residents, the football. Fund-raising, bringing kids to the matches. He did it. He did them all. He’d enjoyed it. Then his sons stopped playing, and he stopped going. Less people to talk to—it just happened that way. He didn’t miss it at the time. He doesn’t miss it now. He passes the granite stone, “Coolock Village” carved into it. “Sponsored by Irish Shell Ltd., 1998.” He’s behind the petrol station, the secondhand cars, against the back wall. Behind the chipper, and Coolock Glass. A high wall, there’s nothing to see. To his right, the traffic. Too early for the rush, but it’s heavy enough. He wonders what kickboxing is like, what kickboxing parents are like. He hasn’t a clue. He’s at the church now, the car park. There’s nothing on—funeral, wedding—no one there. He enjoyed the football. He liked the men who ran the club—he remembers that, he remembers saying it. There was a trip to Liverpool—the car, the ferry. Three kids in the back, another father beside him. That had been good. A good weekend. Liverpool had won. Against Ipswich or Sunderland. Some team like that. He’s doing well. He’s not tired. It’s hot. It might rain. Another high wall, the backs of more houses. He has to bend under branches. Southampton. A bus passes, knocks warm air against him. Liverpool beat Southampton. The bus swerves in, to the stop in front of him. A woman gets off. She walks away. She’s faster than him; he won’t see her face. She wears trainers, like his. He stopped going to Mass. She still goes. As far as he knows. He stopped going when the kids stopped. He’s coming up to the crossroads. There’s one of the Africans there, selling the Herald. Walking between the cars at the lights. He’s never seen anyone buy one. But the Africans are there, every day. He can cross; the light is green for him. Cadbury’s, down to the left. More houses, in off the road. He hated Mass, the whole thing. Always did. Standing up, sitting down. Most Sundays. Or Saturday nights, when they started that. Getting it over with. He’s at the back of Cadbury’s now. It’s like a park. Greenhouses and all. It’s like the countryside here, the little river, the trees. What it must have been like. But not in his memory. It was always like this. It’s depressing, a life, laid out like that. Mass, driving the kids to football, or dancing. The pint on Friday. The sex on Sunday. Pay on Thursday. The shop on Saturday. Leave the house at the same time, park in the same spot. The loyalty card. The bags. The routine. One day he knew: he hated it. His mother worked in Cadbury’s when he was a kid. Christmas and Easter. The cinema across the road. The UCI. He hasn’t been to the pictures in years. She used to bring home Easter eggs, the ones that were out of shape, no use for the shops. He brought one into school. His lunch. King of the world that day. He can’t remember the last film he went to. He’s starting to sweat. Fine. That’s exercise. That’s what they want. He can smell the Tayto factory. It’s not too bad today. Clouds gathering, ahead. Getting ready. It’s hot. “Michael Collins.” The last film he went to. But that’s a long time ago. He’s sure he’s been since then. He looks across at the UCI. But he can’t read the names of the films. Too far away. He hasn’t a clue what’s on, what’s big. No kids at home now. He’s going past the paint factory. He thinks it’s a paint factory. Akzo Nobel. Berger, Sandtex, Sadolin. She doesn’t go to the pictures, either. He doesn’t think she does. She didn’t like “Michael Collins.” He did. More country cottages. And more behind them, old lanes, warehouses. He’s coming up to Woodie’s. She meets her friends when she goes out—he thinks. She still tells him, sometimes. Before she goes. Tells him she’s going. Who she’s meeting. A gang of women she’s known for years. He knows them all. He knows their husbands. They used to go out together, the men and the women. It wasn’t too bad. Not now, though, not in years. Maybe she goes to the pictures with them. He doubts it. She’d tell him. It’s not that they never talk. She went to a play, a few months back. In town. She told him. Something like that, she’d tell him. He’d tell her. It’s not that bad. He hates Woodie’s. Not the shop. He sees the need—wood, paint. He opens his jacket. It’s a bit too hot now. He’s fine. He’s grand. The heart is calm. It’s not the products. It’s the idea. The D.I.Y. The people who live in the place at the weekend. Haunting the aisles. And the other shops over there. Classic Furniture. Right Price Tiles. “Tile Your Bathroom for C=299.” The pet shop’s gone. The big place. He used to go there with the kids. She’d come with them. They laughed when they realized: it was a family outing. Nearer than the zoo. Ice cream on the way home. The kids were delighted. The innocence. It was lovely. He looks behind. Before he crosses. It’s usually busy. Nothing coming; he doesn’t have to stop. The McDonald’s is new. Toymaster. PC Superstore. And Lidl. Only open a week. Some kind of supermarket. The car park is fuller, packed since it opened. He doesn’t know when it changed. He doesn’t know when he knew. Before she moved out of the bedroom. They stopped talking. There was nothing dramatic. He’s been living alone for years. He doesn’t know what happened. There was no shouting, very little. There was no violence. No one was hit. No one played away from home. He didn’t. She didn’t. There was a Christmas do. He’s coming up to the Texaco station. The pub is behind it. Newtown House. Two doors, no windows. The Belcamp Inn, it used to be called—he thinks. The only place, the only time he was ever in a fight. In the days when he took his time coming home. He looks behind, crosses the turn for the industrial estate. Friday night. He knocked into a guy at the bar. Not really a fight. Just a couple of digs—he was too scared to feel them. Then too scared to leave. That Christmas do. A young one who’d just started in the job a few weeks before. His leg had touched hers, sitting together. He was surprised when she didn’t move. A bit scared. Her leg pressed against his. Nothing sexy about it. Nice, though. The thought. Then they’d met in the corridor. Him going to the toilet, her coming back. They smiled. He stopped. She didn’t. Then she did. He put his hands on her. They kissed. Rubbed each other. He was bursting, full of drink. They stopped. He went to the jacks, came back, and it never happened. That was it. That was all. He never told anyone. He looks. Cars coming up behind him. He waits, and crosses the station entrance. It’s not as fancy as those new forecourts going up everywhere. Martina. Good-looking girl. She was young. But so was he. That was all. He doesn’t know what happened. Or what he’d say, how he’d bring it up, after this long. —What went wrong? He could never say that. —What happened? She’d look at him. He’d have to explain. Where would he start? He hadn’t a clue. And the question would announce it—the end. They’d have to admit it. And one of them would have to go. Him. But he’s alone already. He knows the last time he spoke to someone. This morning. Getting the paper. The woman behind the counter. —Nice day again. —Yeah. That was it. A nice woman. Attractive. His age. A bit younger. He’s coming up to the Darndale roundabout. He never looked at women his age. Until recently. They were always too old. Not really women; ex-women. Now, though, he looks. But he doesn’t. Not really. He doesn’t know what he’d do if a woman spoke to him. —Nice day again. —Yeah. What else could he say? He isn’t interested. He’s used to himself. He’s fine. He’s come to the roundabout. He’ll go on. He isn’t tired. He crosses. Darndale to the left. Rough spot. He’s never been in there. He runs the last bit, trots—to the other side. He’s fine. It’s dark, very quickly. Like four hours gone, in a second. And cold, and it’s raining. He goes on. He closes his jacket. It’s bucketing. There’s an inch of sudden water. He can’t see far. The traffic noise has changed; it’s softer, menacing. Who’s to blame? No one. It just happened. It’s too late now. He can’t pull them back, his wife, the kids. They have their own lives. She does; they do. Maybe grandkids will do something. If there are any. He doesn’t know. He knows nothing. He feels nothing. He doesn’t even feel sorry for himself. He doesn’t think he does. He’s fine. He copes. But this is stupid. It’s lashing, no sign of sunlight. He’s cold. His feet are wringing. He turns back. He can feel the water down his back. It annoys him, giving up, but he’s—not sure—reassured, or something. He can change his mind. He’s prepared to. He makes it to the bus shelter. Across the Malahide Road. A break in the traffic. He goes through the water. He’s fine. In under the shelter. A gang of young guys. Fuckin’ this, fuckin’ that. Rough kids. Too skinny, too fat. Not really kids. One of them pushes him. Bangs against him. An accident. No apology. They laugh. They shove one another out from the shelter. He’ll go. But one of them steps out, shouts. A taxi stops. They pile in. One slips. They laugh. They’re gone. There’s one kid left there. A girl. Eight, nine—he’s not sure. White tracksuit. Mousy hair, beads in it. She’s chewing gum. His own kids were scared of gum, when they were little. His fault—he was always afraid of them choking. She’s chewing away. He can hear her. The rain is dying. She speaks. —I’m waitin’ on me mammy. He’s surprised. He says nothing, at first. —Where is she? —At her work, she says. Comin’ home. —On the bus? —Yeah. —That’s nice. —Yeah. He puts his hand out. —The rain’s stopping. —It was badly needed, she says. He smiles. —You’re dead right, he says. The ground is already steaming. He shakes water from his jacket. —I’ll go on, he says. Will you be all right there by yourself? —Ah yeah, she says. I’m grand. —Good, he says. Well. Seeyeh. —Seeyeh. The rain is gone. It’s bright again. He walks. Nice kid. He smiles. Hanahoe walks home. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Screenwriter	How was I supposed to know that any mention of suicide to the phalanx of doctors making Friday rounds would warrant the loss of not only weekend-pass privileges but also the liberty to take a leak in private? My first suicidal ideations occurred to me when I was ten, eleven, twelve, something like that, and by now I was habituated to them and dreams of hurting myself (in the parlance of those places) formed a kind of lullaby I often used to rock myself to bed at night. I got into trouble when I told my p-doc I couldn’t fall asleep until I’d made myself comfortable by drawing the blankets over my head and imagining I was closing the lid of my coffin. In confessing to him, I was only trying to be honest and accurate, a good patient, deserving. But no dice: the head p-doc put me on Maximum Observation and immediately I was being trailed around by a sober ex-athlete who, introducing himself, put a fatherly hand on my shoulder and squeezed and told me not to worry, he was a screenwriter, too—not as successful or rich as me, sure, but a screenwriter nonetheless. He said that his name was Bob and he let it be known that he’d only taken this position on the mental ward to gather material for his next script. Half the reason I was in the ward was to get away from the movies, but my whole time with Bob I kept wondering, Is this, or that, or this or that, or this, or this, or this going to be in a movie? Everywhere I went, he went, creeping along a few sedate paces back in soft-soled shoes, a shadow that gave off a disturbing susurrus like the maddening sibilance settling dust must make to the ears of ants. One morning I was lying on my mattress, flipping through women’s magazines, but after a while Bob started scratching his ankle, so I got up and went to the bathroom. Bob stood right behind me and in my state of excited self-consciousness the splashing of piss against the urinal cake was deafening, a cataract so loud it was like I’d managed, somehow, to urinate directly into my own ear. After that I watched a television show about a guy with massive arms but no legs climbing a mountain; with a system of pulleys and ropes he managed to belay himself up the slope like a load of bananas. He planted an American flag on the summit. This ruined man’s struggle and eventual triumph moved me; in fact I began to cry. To calm myself I listened to the languorous pick-pock of two heavily medicated patients thwacking a Ping-Pong ball in the rec room, but there was a final phut and then that unnerving nothing, nothing at all, and finally an attack of the fantods drove me out to the patio. Where I sat, Bob sat, and pretty soon the patio started making me crazy, too. Sitting still—just sitting!—was like an equestrian feat. But if I stood up, if I walked in circles, then Bob would have to stand up and walk in circles with me. The patio was perched high above the F.D.R. and the East River and caged in with chain-link fencing. Concrete benches were scattered around like cuttlebone and there were potted shrubs in each corner. Scavenging pigeons and seagulls flocked overhead, vaguely white and whirling in the wind. I crushed saltines in their cellophane packets and poured the crumbs in the lap of my paper gown and fed the pieces to the birds. Bob said, “Are you gonna get better?” I looked up from my lap and said, “This isn’t very interesting, is it?” “I didn’t say that.” “I know you want to write a movie. You’re looking for material. But this—it’s not a thriller, that’s for sure.” “And it’s not a whodunit because, like, you’re not doing anything.” A young woman known on the ward as the ballerina was dancing across the patio. By the way she kept her hair twisted into a prim, tight bun, and by her body, which seemed to have a memory separate from her mind, a strict memory of its own, you immediately guessed she was a dancer. Her grandparents were with her, two hunched-up people in colossal overcoats and tiny black shoes, people I assumed were immigrants or refugees, because their clothes were so out-of-date, like from the nineteenth century, and because, all bent over, they looked wary and vigilant, as though they were ducking. Lumpen, I kept thinking, or lumpenproletariat—when I probably meant just plain lumpy. Every evening they came to visit their granddaughter, and now they sat on a bench and watched as she swooped like a bird through the lengthening shadows. The old man smoked an unfiltered cigarette, working his tongue in a lizardy fashion to free the flecks of tobacco lodged in his teeth. The old lady sat with her knuckle-like face rapt, a Kleenex balled in her fist. She was crying for the beauty of her granddaughter, and in motion the girl was beautiful, she was ecstatic. She wore a sacklike standard-issue paper gown the same as me and she was barefoot. Her arms floated away from her body as though she were trying to balance a feather on the tip of each finger. Then she jumped around, modern and spasmodic, as if the whole point of dance were to leap free of your skin. She raced from one end of the patio to the other, flew up, twirling and soaring, clawing the fence with her fingers and setting the links to shiver. But as soon as her grandparents left, blam, the dance in her died. She went cataleptic. I clapped, and said, “That was nice. Brava, brava. Bravissima!” “Got a smoke?” she said. I rose to hand her a cigarette and my lighter and to look into her strange blue eyes. “You’re really a good dancer,” I said. “No I’m not,” she said. Her voice had no affect and its deadness sat me right back down on the bench. She turned away and flicked the wheel of the lighter, cupping the cigarette out of the wind. A paper plate rolled as if chased, around and around the patio, like a child’s game without the child. A white moth fell like a flower petal from the sky, dropped through a link in the fence, and came to light on my hand. The cooling night wind raised gooseflesh on my arms, and a cloud of smoke ripped into the air. The girl’s gown was smoldering. A leading edge of orange flame was chewing up the hem. I rose from my seat to tell the ballerina she was on fire. The moth flew from my hand, a gust fanned the flames, there was a flash, and the girl ignited, lighting up like a paper lantern. She was cloaked in fire. The heat moved in waves across my face and I had to squint against the brightness. The ballerina spread her arms and levitated, sur les pointes, leaving the patio as her legs, ass, and back emerged phoenix-like out of this paper chrysalis, rising up until finally the gown sloughed from her shoulders and sailed away, a tattered black ghost ascending in a column of smoke and ash, and she lowered back down, naked and white, standing there, pretty much unfazed, in first position. After a month on the p-ward you don’t get telegrams or get-well cards or stuffed animals anymore, and the petals fall off your flowers and curl like dead skin on the dresser top while the stems go soft and rot in their vases. That’s a bad stretch, that Sargasso in the psych ward when the last winds of your old life die out. In the real world I was still legally married—my wife was a film producer, but she’d left me for a more glamorous opportunity, the star of our most recent movie. The script I’d written was somewhat autobiographical and the character he played was modelled after my dead father. So now my wife was banging Dad’s doppelgänger and I hadn’t talked to her in I don’t know how long. In between therapy sessions and the administration of the usual battery of tests (Thematic Apperception, Rorschach, M.M.P.I.), as well as blood-draws and vitals, I sat on the sofa in the lounge, hoping for a certain zazen zeroness—serene and stupid—but mostly getting hung up on cravings for tobacco. One night after dinner I sat on the sofa and moved my finger to different locations around my head—below the ear, right in the ear, above the eyeball, against the roof of my mouth—experimenting with places to put the gun. I tried filling the dreary hours with poetry—my first love—but I’d been a script doctor too long. I hadn’t futzed with an iamb in ages, and the words just dog-paddled around the page, senselessly. I was desperate enough for a nicotine high to harvest some of the more smokable butts out of the Folgers coffee cans the staff filled with kitty litter and set out on the patio. The pickings were slim, though; in the p-ward people tend to smoke their cigarettes ravenously. You look around, and everybody’s got burnt, scabby fingers just like the Devil. Finally I worked up the nerve to bum a smoke from Carmen, an operatic Italian woman who was my next-door neighbor on the ward. She tapped one free of her pack. It looked like a sterile, all-white, hospital-issue ciggie that would never do anything bad, such as give you cancer. I drew it under my nose, giving it a sniff in the manner of a man with a fine cigar. “You saved my life,” I said. “Could I bother you for a match?” “You know,” she said, “I grew up a only child and was chased by every kid in my school! Teased all my life, my mom’s dressin’ me didn’t help! I was the school clown, I can never remember being happy as a child, sexually abused from eleven to fourteen, then I started to run away at sixteen, raped several times, tried suicide several times . . . then I met a thirty-five-year-old man, got pregnant, married him, suffered beatings for seven years, left him, alone, had nowhere to go, three kids, I collapsed, went for the sixth time into the hospital . . . came out, nowhere to go, so I stayed with this guy, a friend, we started to mess around, I had my fourth child, now when I look back at it all, phew, I never had love, I hate my life, I wish I was never born, I get days when I feel so stupid that taking a bath takes two hours ’cause I can’t think!” Man, on the p-ward you asked for a match and people told you stuff. After a week you knew everybody’s etiology. Illness was our lingua franca. Patients announced their worst infirmities right off, but no one dared talk about normal life. Oh, no—that was shameful and embarrassing, a botch you didn’t bring up in polite conversation. Fearing I might blow my chance for a pass if I hung around Carmen, I grabbed a book of matches from a table in the Ping-Pong room and stepped out onto the patio. But the ballerina was out there, dancing. “Got an extra smoke?” she asked. “I don’t want any encore of the last time,” I said. “Besides, I only got this one. I’ll share it with you if you want.” She sat beside me on the bench. Her skin smelled of ointments and steroid creams. I said, “Are you a professional?” “Professional nutcase,” she said. “No, really.” “I’ve been in here and uptown at Columbia for like a donkey’s year.” “I meant are you a dancer.” “Not with this body.” “Why do you say that?” “Do you have a knife?” “I haven’t worn pants in five weeks.” “What’s that supposed to mean?” “Nothing. I just don’t have any pockets. No wallet, no keys, no spare change, no lint, no rabbit’s foot, and no knife. It’s emasculating. Why do you want a knife, anyway?” “Never mind.” Her nose was fat and fruitlike, a nose for pratfalls and slapstick, not jetés and pirouettes and pliés and whatnot. But her lips were lovely, the color of cold meat, and her eyes, sunk deep in their sockets, were clear blue. When you looked into them, you half expected to see fish swimming around at the back of her head, shy ones. “All I ever wanted to do was dance, all I’ve ever done is dance, and I grew up into a linebacker.” “Yeah, well, I wanted to be a screenwriter, and guess what. I am one. That’s the other tragedy in life.” I eased back against the fence. “Anyway, you got nice legs. I don’t know what you’re talking about.” “My thighs, stupid!” From the patio you could see the red gondolas rising over the East River, pendent and swaying as they made their way to Roosevelt Island. The sun was setting and I thought it would be so calm and beautiful to be hanging in a bucket way above everything, especially if they could just ride you out over the river and suspend you there, bobbing around, twilight for all time, the sun never going down, the glass forever warm, just hanging out in a lovely red bucket with that senile light dusting your cheeks. “Calm down.” I lit the cigarette and passed it to her. “Your legs are fine.” She smiled. “Well, thank you,” she said. Then she puckered her lips, made a loud wet smack, sucked down a single deep drag, exhaled, and drove the cigarette into her thigh. She twisted and snubbed and jammed the coal against her skin, staring at the burn, red and flecked with ash, until the last live cinder died out. “You ought to quit smoking,” I said. Bob followed us back to her room, where she applied some kind of topical anodyne, smoothing the white cream into her wound, dreamy as a lover, and crawled into bed. “Why’d you do that?” “If I knew, I wouldn’t be here, now would I?” “Sure you might. You might know exactly why you did it but you might not be able to stop yourself anyway.” I leaned over her bed and tried to kiss her but she put a hand to my lips. After that, I came to see her every night. I totally dug her broken bohemian thing, it was so the opposite of my trajectory, my silly success. I’d made a million dollars each of the last four years running and never felt worse in my life. I’m not whining—I’m not one of those whiners. One of those affluent crybabies. But I’d lost the plot and was afraid that if my life improved any more I’d vanish. By contrast a woman setting herself on fire seemed very real; on doctor’s orders, she was strapped in at nine o’clock sharp, pinned to the flat board of her bed like a specimen. At first it was unnerving to talk to a woman who was lashed to her bed with a contraption of leather belts and heavy brass buckles, so I angled my seat away from her face and spoke to her knees, which looked, in the faint blue light, as though they’d been carved by water from a bar of soap. “How are you?” I said. She seesawed her wrist, comme ci, comme ça, beneath a band of heavy saddle leather. The leather was burnished to a rich gloss by the straining of a thousand sweaty wrists on a thousand other agonized nights. “Would you grab me an orange?” I fetched an orange from a basket and peeled it; it was especially fragrant in the semidark. Bob was sitting in a chair in the hallway and I could hear the dry scratch of his pencil as he took notes. I didn’t care. The ballerina’s window was open and in the breeze the heavy curtains swept aside and the hospital courtyard, with its scalloped pattern of cobblestones, its wet bare trees and February emptiness, seemed like a scene recollected from an expatriate life in Paris that I’d never lived, a moment out of some tawdry romance I’d never had in my youth. “Make sure you peel as much of the yuck off as possible,” she said. “I hate the yuck.” “I hate the yuck, too,” I said, and held a jewelled segment over her mouth. Her lips spread and her tongue slid forward. It had been ages since I’d fed anyone. It was excellent the way, when I held the crescent of orange there, poised above her blue lips, her mouth just opened. I dangled another piece and watched her mouth open like a little starveling bird’s and then I pulled the piece away and watched her mouth close. Then I gave it to her. “You don’t have a match, do you?” I put a cigarette in my mouth. “A pyro like yourself.” “I’d love a smoke.” “I bet you would. Why do you burn yourself?” “My doctor’s theory is it puts the pain in a place I can find it. On the outside.” “I know exactly what he means. I thought making movies was going to be that way. Now I’d just rather be crucified.” “I don’t like your mind.” “Yeah, well, I’m not here for a pedicure.” “Untie me,” she whispered. “No can do,” I said. “Please.” “Can’t.” “We’ll just smoke that cig and then you can buckle me right back up.” “I don’t have any matches.” She smiled. “I do.” She told me to lift the table lamp and underneath it I found a cache of contraband matches. Each individual match had been ripped from the book and mustered in a neat, soldierly line, and the strip of striking was there, too, the whole kit flat enough to hide beneath the green felt base. “Great, but I’ll just hold the cig to your lips. I’m going to leave you strapped in for now.” We worked the cig down to a nub, fanning the smoke out the window, and then she yanked at the sides of her gown. A couple of the snaps popped open, and she pulled aside the paper. It made a rustling like the thin parchment pages of a Bible. “This was the first time, after an audition for the Albany Ballet,” she said, using her finger to trace a faint cicatrix the size of postage stamp. “I wanted a sharp blade, I just had the idea. I had a disposable razor for shaving my legs, so I put that in my mouth. I bit down on it real hard, trying to crack the plastic so I could get the blade free. But I couldn’t get it. It wouldn’t come out. I was so frustrated. I started crying. I lit a cigarette. I had no idea what that hand with the cigarette would do—it was like it was somebody else’s. “Sometimes, like this, I’m just tense,” she said, pointing out an ellipsis of brown dots down the length of her belly, marks the size of moles she’d made by extinguishing stick matches against her skin. All along her body, a palimpsest of older lesions darkened beneath the rawer, more recent burns. Her arms were crosshatched with brands she’d seared into her skin with a coat hanger heated over a gas stove. “Can I touch?” I asked. She nodded. I put my finger against a dark, hard burl on her outer thigh, an elevated lump as smooth as a chestnut. I ran the flat of my hand over her hip and down her leg. Whatever I touched prompted a story, some account: auditions, classes, Tuesday nights, phone calls, weddings. I’d been horny, but now I felt detached. This display of her body wasn’t sexy, the way a tour of a battlefield isn’t bloody. In the p-hosp, of course, it was seriously against the rules to touch another patient, and being under Bob’s constant surveillance didn’t make it easy for us. In line at the cafeteria I’d palm my food tray with one hand and feel her solid balletic rump with the other. Or I’d play footsie with her under the table at Friday-night bingo. Or I’d grope her up in the little gymnasium where, for R.T., we played some of the sorriest games of volleyball you can imagine. In the typical draft that goes on against the fence at school, you know who the athletes are, who the sissies are, who to crib from in a history exam and avoid on the kickball team, but up on psych choosing a squad of decent players was primarily a pharmacological matter, something where, really, you wanted to consult the DSM-IV before you made your first selection. Choosing an appropriate sexual partner in a mental hospital was probably supposed to work along similar lines. You needed records! With her malady, the ballerina wasn’t really into fooling around, but I hoped her new medication, Manerix, which was supposed to dampen some of her desire to burn herself, might also lead by inverse ratio to an upsurge in her passion for old-fashioned sex. After a week, two weeks, I was getting frustrated. Most of the contact we made, skin to skin, was glancing and accidental, hardly more than what passes acceptably between strangers on the street. She had this terrific body, so looking and fantasizing was fine—for a while. But of course about this time I discovered that I couldn’t whack off. My medication was giving me erectile hassles, plus Bob outside my open door didn’t help. In anticipation of the day when the ballerina’s Manerix would kick in I started pitching my cocktail of bupropion and lithium and clonazepam out the window. But the ballerina made such great progress on her new meds that by the end of February her p-doc wanted her to practice sleeping through the night without restraints. After dinner we’d sit outside, on the patio, and watch the sun go down, knowing she was about to be released. And one morning, sure enough, I saw her dragging a wicker basket and a pillowcase full of clothes to the nurses’ station. Departures on the psych ward were a big deal. People always swore they’d come back and visit but they never did. By the time you were a ward veteran like myself a little bit of your hope left with them and never fully returned. I expected I’d never see her again. She was cured, and that was tantamount to being gone, gone off to reside in some unfamiliar land. Her grandparents met her in the lounge with their hopeless, past-tense faces and their old leafy clothes; standing beside them in a gauzy spring dress, the ballerina seemed a mere puff of self, passing like a spirit out of their heavy Old World sadness, whatever it was about. She told me that as soon as I managed to wrangle my first pass she wanted to see me. She used a red felt pen to write her name and number across the hem of my gown, and we shook hands, but after she was gone and I took up my station on the sofa, I felt certain I wouldn’t rise again until some angel came by and blew a trumpet. It was maybe a couple weeks later, and I was no longer on Maximum Observation. Bob was gone and I was on my own. My window was open and little things stirred as they had in my childhood, so that the clothes scattered on the floor were once again the bodies of dead men. When I was a boy, my father and his six brothers seined for salmon out of Ilwaco, Washington, and every couple years one or another of them would wash up in the frog water around Chehalis Slough, drowned. The funerals seemed to last days, weeks, even months, as the remaining brothers gathered nightly in the Riptide bar and stared drunkenly into each other’s eyes like dazed, speechless toads. Left at home, sleepless and alone—I have a mother somewhere, but I never knew her—I imagined that each shirt on the floor was a dead uncle and I could not leave the tipsy life raft of my bed, waiting out those long nights when the ocean fog was cool and full of premonitions and the beacon at the end of the breakwater threw green shadows against the walls of my room. Now I drew the blanket over my head. “Our Father who art in heaven . . . etc. . . . etc. . . . now and at the hour of our death amen!” When the coffin thing didn’t put me to sleep I peeked over the satiny selvage of my blanket and stared at the ceiling and listened to the tedious complaints of patients as they wept into the pay phone across the hall: (8:02) . . . My parents had a bad marriage then divorced and married worse people . . . (8:07) . . . I’ll show you what’s the matter with me. Then I get my razor. I cut down sharp and quick. I scream and go out onto the court and bleed all over . . . (8:47) . . . it’s hard to kill yourself by taking Tylenol. You die from liver failure, which takes a long time . . . This kind of serial conversation went on night after night, a litany of complaint and outrage, right outside my door. People were hospitalized when their feelings reached an acute phase, but if you eavesdropped on all the jabbering, all the lonely, late-night calls, the whole long history of pain and madness fused into a single humdrum story, without much drama. It went flat. I’d been revolving in and out of various mental wards my whole life and previously had always considered myself touched and unique. I was kind of snobby about it—like a war vet, bitter and proud—but now I flipped the covers to the floor and queued up with all the other lunatics, waiting my turn. “Look,” I said, “can I come see you?” “You can get out?” the ballerina asked. “What’re you saying?” “Are you better?” “No,” I said. “Not really. But I’m off M.O.” She didn’t say anything. On the p-ward you often found the pay phone swaying from the end of its metal cord like the pendulum of a clock, no one in sight. People just drifted away from conversations, too frazzled and forgetful to end the call or maybe too medicated and lethargic to hang up. That’s what I was imagining when the ballerina went silent, the dangling phone. “O.K.?” I said, finally. “O.K.,” she said. I hung up and crawled back into bed and stared at the ceiling and listened. (9:31) . . . I swear I spent sixty per cent of my life puking . . . (9:33) . . . Then can you explain to me why every time I got in my car to go somewhere “Mr. Bojangles” was playing . . . (9:45) . . . I started keeping a journal almost two years ago. I used to write only when I was happy. Then I realized that I’d look back and think that my whole life was happy, so I started only writing when I was depressed. And I realized that I wasn’t always depressed, so I started to write every day. Now I calculate I’m fifty per cent happy and fifty per cent depressed so I don’t see the point of writing at all anymore . . . (10:07) . . . It hurts. I used my very first pass to visit the ballerina. With three hours before lockdown, I caught a cab, stopped for a bottle of wine, then hustled over to her place, a small apartment just off Varick. She showed me around with exactly three gestures. “Kitchen,” she said. “Bedroom. Bathroom.” We uncorked the wine and toasted my new freedom. After being abstemious for so long, I was drunk in no time. I bent and gave the ballerina a kiss on the tip of her big old nose and crossed the room in that deliberate way of drunks. Her bathroom was a frilly gift that one girl might give to another, an assortment of powders, soaps, oils, lotions, perfumes, sea sponges, lava stones, and so on. There were yellow candles set at the corners of the tub. Bath beads in translucent caps sat in jars like sapphires. A fragrant potpourri filled a blue glass bottle and there was a bar of brown soap with chunks of something abrasive, like sawdust, embedded in it. The whole place was stockpiled with not just your boring brand-name products but all these totally recherché and esoteric potions searched out in faraway quarters of the city. I opened the medicine cabinet and fingered through the shelves, reading. A jar of astringent lotion said that it would rid your skin of the toxins that are an inescapable part of modern life. I didn’t believe it, of course, and yet who doesn’t want to “revive” and “replenish,” who doesn’t love the words “pure” and “essential”? My p-doc hadn’t been using any of this uplifting language, and after a couple months on the ward the exotica listed on the backs of these bottles—olive, kukui, St. John’s-wort, wild yam—sounded good to me, sounded like the fruits of some heavenly place, an island off somewhere in the blue future. Hadn’t Columbus set sail in search of these very ingredients? Mixed in with all that humbug were the serious amber bottles of medication: Effexor, Paxil, Wellbutrin, Prozac, Zoloft, the whole starting roster of antidepressants. The ballerina couldn’t have been taking them in combination, so what was the history here? I lined the bottles up according to the date the script had been filled at the pharmacy but the time line gave out about a month before she entered the psych ward. No refill for Manerix in sight. What was the deal? In a back row of the medicine chest she kept the scrubs and utility players, and I popped a few Tuinals, washing them down with water from the faucet, and then tapped a couple Xanax and Valium into my palm, to save for a rainy day. I took a leak and flushed the toilet and stared at myself in the mirror. My eyes were dark pits and my gums had turned a pulpy red. I seemed to be looking at the portrait of a man who hadn’t eaten a piece of fruit in years. When I came out she said, “Lots of medications, huh?” “You got the whole library in there,” I said. “You were snooping around, trying to get a read on me. I know, so don’t even bother saying you weren’t.” “I said I was looking.” “I don’t care. I always look, too. It’s O.K.” I shrugged. “What’s up with the Manerix?” “That new antidepressant that’s supposed to depress my depression better than the old antidepressants did?” “Yeah, that one.” “I ditched it.” “Is that a good idea? How’s it going, without meds?” “I feel like burning myself, if that’s what you mean.” For ten years I’d been dutiful and hardworking, cranking out those big-time Hollywood screenplays in order to bankroll a life style that broke the silly-meter. Now it was like, Bring on the degradation! Let’s break through the bullshit and get real! I wished I’d brought another bottle of wine, to help lower me back into the bohemian hopes I’d had at twenty-five—literature and pussy. Baudelaire and women that stank like Gruyère! I’d never really wanted to write screenplays. I’d wanted to be a poet. And here I was, in poetry central. There were candles on the shelves, on the floor, fat and thin candles, tall and short, red and green and all the gradients of soft pastel, scented with the sweet and cloying flavors of guava, pomegranate, mango. Everything here was luxe, calme, and volupté, all right. In his Tahitian diary Gauguin wrote, “Life being what it is, we dream of revenge,” a phrase whose ruthlessness used to be right up my alley. But what kind of revenge did I need when last year I’d managed to enjoy three summers, two springs, and four falls—one in Moscow, another in Florence, two more in Cairo and Burma? I was a touch manic, and after I walked off the set of my last movie, winter just didn’t make it onto the itinerary. I was like a god, laughing at the weather. Who needed Gauguin and his gaudy painted paradise? For me, now, the most extreme, remote, Polynesian corner of the globe was inside the ballerina’s skull. She crawled across the floor on her hands and knees and the front of her dress gaped open and showed her breasts just hanging in that lovely, lovely way, guavaish and weighty, ready for plucking. I reached in and pinched a nipple. She shrank back and told me she didn’t feel like being touched tonight. “You don’t?” “Not really,” she said. “You look scared. Are you scared?” “Scared?” I looked up at her. “I don’t know. I don’t even know who I am right now. I’m all bottomed out. I’m down here with the basal ganglia and the halibuts.” “Did you take any of my pills?” “You bet.” “You liar! You did, too.” “I said I did, you goofy bitch!” That started the ballerina pacing, head erect, back swayed, tense. Her heels pounded the floor like a ball-peen hammer. She marched over to her dresser and rearranged some objects. I heard glass clinking and jars slamming down. She jerked a chair away from the window and set it by the door. She slapped shut a book that had been lying open beside a cereal bowl on the table. She disappeared into the kitchen alcove. She stomped back in with a cup of ice in her hand. She chewed the ice and the broken shards fell out of her mouth to the floor. She grabbed the chair at the door and returned it to its original place by the window. Her whole, total animal thing took over, while for me, thanks to the downers, all memory of the upright life was gone. I would never again walk into a room and shake someone’s hand. I could barely turn my head to keep track of the ballerina. Some words came out of her mouth but I don’t know where in the room they went. I never heard them. Her dress dropped to the floor and she sat on the bed. Her panties were black, webby things; it looked as if a huge hairy spider had clamped itself onto her. Beside her she had a pack of cigarettes and a candle and a green knitting needle I wasn’t too crazy about. She lifted the candle and lit the cigarette and drained some of the hot wax on her thigh. All the while she watched me, and after a few minutes she had me hooked, I was mesmerized, charmed, I was down way deep into that blue pool where the fish shyly waited. She took a drag of the cigarette, exhaled, then turned the hot coal around and twirled the ash off against her nipple. Another drag, and she turned her attention to the other nipple. Pretty soon both aureoles were ashy smudges. Her eyes remained wide open and, I guess, fixed on me, but they were blue and unfocussed, and the pain was miles away. I watched her, but something had gone wrong. Her torment wasn’t turning me on. I didn’t feel a thing. Obviously the drugs I’d snatched from her medicine cabinet weren’t elevating my mood, and the thought of all those sundries in her bathroom was bringing me down, hard. Every last, sad soap in that utopian toilet was bumming me out. They were all part of a repertoire of hope I’d already lived through. I’d already washed myself with that crap. I’d taken those pills. I’d tried to feel loose and relaxed in a tub of hot water, beneath that shadowy candlelight. It all seemed so familiar. Her paisley sheets and the fan of peacock feathers above the futon and the tasselled lampshade screamed boudoir. The little shells and rocks and twigs italicized a special moment long ago. In the little syncretic boutiquey spiritual figurines lined up on the windowsill and the crystal prisms strung from the ceiling on threads of monofilament I saw the very same occult trinkets that had decorated every bedroom I’d ever been in. My anticipation was gone, I couldn’t lust or desire. All this intense specialness, along with the way she was effortfully trying to turn her pain to pleasure, was ending up as a very dull result in my brain. I heard the tindery snap, the kindling crackle of burning hair. She was burning herself, là-bas. The whole room stank. As she closed in on a climax, soot washed down her thigh like the aftermath of a calamity when the uncaring rain begins to carry it all out to sea . . . “Here,” she said, passing me the cigarette. “No, thanks,” I said. “Burn me.” I’m a screenwriter and my movies gross millions and when I write “the car blows up” there’s a pretty good chance a real car will indeed blow up, but I am not particularly keen on the idea of roasting this woman’s cunt over a hot coal. I can’t even say the word “cunt” convincingly. The Frenchy sang-froid I’d felt leaving the psych ward was completely gone now. I wasn’t Henry Miller, I wasn’t Eugène-Henri-Paul Gauguin, I wasn’t any of those expat guys. My career as a sexual adventurer was about half an hour old, and it was over already. I’ve read Baudelaire but I wouldn’t want to have his big ugly forehead. I was known among my friends as a major cork dork and the wine I’d bought I wouldn’t even have cooked with at home, fricasseeing stew meat for the dog. When I left the ballerina, if I chose, I could check myself out of the hospital and into the Plaza, stay a month, order room service, conduct business through my agent, while I watched other people out the window, real lunatics, splashing in the fountain, singing holy songs, dancing and shouting hosannas into the sky until the police came and tasered them back into submission. When I squared up my tab at the p-hosp it would run me about thirty-five grand and at that rate the Plaza would be a bargain. I needed air. I managed to stand and make it to the window and was swinging a foot onto the fire escape when a wet gob of something hit with a splat on the back of my neck. I thought for sure it was bird shit. I looked up. A blue rain was falling through the street lamps and at the Korean deli on the corner a crippled man leaned on a wooden cane, picking through a pyramid of oranges. An old Korean woman sat on a white bucket, cutting the stems on peonies, huge lion-headed flowers with pink petals that shook loose in the wind and were pasted to the wet sidewalk like découpage. Everything seemed to have been given a new coat of varnish sometime in the night. Every wire and railing glistened, and the air was clean and cool. Above the intersection a traffic signal turned green. Several cars went by, their sleepy wipers blinking away the drizzle. Down at the deli the cripple reached into his pocket and paid for the orange, and the old woman went back to cutting her peonies. How could so much peace and calm reign between two people? I balanced on the windowsill and looked back at the ballerina. She was a mess, ghoulish with a plastering of soot and ash. Her body, crisscrossed with brandings and burned by match heads, looked fully clothed. She’d never be naked again, not with the textile weave of her scars, the plaids and polka dots she’d made of her skin. She said, “What?” I hadn’t said anything. “Isn’t there anything else you like to do?” “I don’t know.” “It’s raining out.” “Why?” “Why?” I said. “Why is it raining?” The air in the room was stale and hot as a kiln, the motion baked out of it. I opened another window in the kitchen alcove. Instantly a sort of pulmonary breeze blew a green curtain into the room, expanding the space. I saw a forgotten slice of bread in the chrome slot of her toaster and a used tea bag set to rest on the edge of her sink, the stub of a cigarette going soggy inside it. When I returned to the bedroom the ballerina hadn’t moved. She’d sleep in these ashes, like some black-feathered bird. Her back was to me, and I went to her, but the burns covering her body—how would you even hold such a woman? Where exactly do you put your hands on somebody who hurts everywhere? I stopped short. I’d never seen her back before, and it was pristine. The skin was flawless, a cold hibernal blue where her blood flowed beneath. I blew on my fingers, warming them, and then laid my hand between her shoulder blades, lightly, as though to press too hard would leave a print. “How about cleaning up?” I said. “Oh,” she sniffled. “I don’t know.” In the bathroom I plugged the drain with a dry cracked stopper and dialled the spigots until the water running over my wrist was hot and tropical. I looked around at all the ingredients. The stuff in jars looked like penny candy, and I spilled some of that in. The beaded things were especially pretty, and I tossed a combination of yellow and green gel caps in the tub, followed by a pill that effervesced and changed the color of the water to a pale Caribbean blue. I gave up on any idea of alchemy and just went wild. Pine Forest, Prairie Grass, Mountain Snow, Ocean Breeze. Once I got into it, I saw no reason to stop—juniper, vanilla, cranberry. A capful of almond oil, a splash of bain moussant, some pink and blue flakes from a box that turned out to be ordinary bubble bath. “O.K.,” I said, closing the bathroom door to trap the steam. She hadn’t budged from her place on the bed. I hooked her arm over my shoulder. For a ballerina she had pretty much zero ballon at this point. Her feet dragged across the floor like the last two dodoes. I was afraid that when I lowered her into the tub she’d sink to the bottom. I made her sit upright. With steam curling down from above and a heady lather of bubble bath rising over the edge of the tub, the bathroom was now one massive cumulus cloud. “A candle,” she said. I snapped the chain on a bare bulb above the sink. “No more candles tonight.” I grabbed a soft white cloth from the shelf and sat beside the tub, in a pillow of suds. “My life is so simple a one-year-old could live it.” “You’re just having one of those days,” I said. I wrung the washcloth and let the warm water dribble down her chest. “What’s up with those old people? Your grandparents?” “They emigrated here after my mom died.” “Where’d they come from?” “Yugoslavia,” she said. “Bosnia, Herzegovina, Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia, Macedonia, that whole thing.” “You speak their language?” “Mala kolicina.” I soaped her shoulders and neck, rinsed the cloth and ran it slowly along the length of her arm, studying the scars. I was stupidly surprised when the wounds didn’t wash away. A siren passed in the street. Her startled fingers took off in flight, fluttering up from the sea of foam and sailing through the fragrant steam, darting here and there. “What’s wrong with you?” she asked. “I don’t know,” I said. “You must have a diagnosis. Everyone has a diagnosis.” “Well, just before I came to the hospital I spent three hundred dollars on Astro-Turf and PVC pipe, trying to build a driving range in my dining room.” “It’s your dining room,” she said. “You can do what you want.” “I’ve never owned a golf club in my life.” “Oh.” “Travel brochures are a bad sign, too, but you know what’s the worst? Messing with the medications. Like lithium—it makes my hands shake and I can’t walk steadily. So I decide to back the lithium off a little and titrate up on something like BuSpar or Lamictal. My hands stop shaking but I can’t remember anything or I start eating like a pig. I keep trying, you know, making all these little adjustments, but it’s like—I don’t know. I don’t know what it’s like.” “There’s no like about it,” she said. “Eventually I can’t move. I’ll have the thought, Oh, I want to go out, so I put on my hat and stare at the door. Right about then I check into the hospital, they fix me up, send me back out. I kick ass for a while and then collapse.” “You know your diagnosis,” she said. “Whatever—bipolar II, Fruit of the Loom IV, it doesn’t make a difference.” “We’ll never get out,” she said. “Au contraire—I’m getting myself discharged A.M.A., first thing tomorrow.” “But at least we have our own language.” “Yeah, Greek.” “In grade school,” she said, “I wrote a report about how a myth was a female moth. We were studying the Greeks.” “You have a beautiful mouth,” I said. “I’d like to crawl in it and die.” “I’m twenty-nine years old,” she said. “My mouth is full of dead boys.” She blew me a kiss. “Sometimes your mind gives me a feeling of great tiredness. Aren’t you exhausted?” “My curfew,” I said feebly. “The fires are going out, it’s true.” She sank down in the tub and submerged so that only her knees, her small dancer’s breasts, her big nose, her lovely mouth and blue eyes, these isolated islands of herself, rose above the darkening water. Flecks of ash floated over the surface. “Here’s my idea for your next screenplay,” she said. “Sirens are going everywhere. People are weeping. It doesn’t really matter where you are, it’s all black. You can’t open your eyes anyway.” “What are you saying?” “And there’s a donkey marooned on an island in the middle of the ocean. A volcano is erupting on the island and rivers of hot lava are flowing toward the donkey. In addition, all around the small island is a ring of fire. What would you do?” I considered the possibilities. “I don’t know.” Smiling, she said, “The donkey doesn’t know, either.” “That’s a good one.” She poked at the remaining bubbles with her finger, popping them. I checked my watch. It was midnight on the nose and all that awaited me back at the p-ward was another morning and a long walk down a putty-colored corridor and, at the end of it, a paper cup full of pills. And in a month or a year the ballerina would touch a scar on her breast and tell a rather pointless story about a screenwriter she’d met in the psych ward. Waves of dirty water lapped against the sides of the tub, and her skin, moist and gleaming, was fragrant with wild yam and almond. Then everything went briefly quiet in one of those strange becalmed moments where it’s hard to believe you’re still in Manhattan. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Sunstroke	The seafront really isn’t the sea but the Bristol Channel: Wales is a blue line of hills on the other side. The district council has brought sand from elsewhere and built a complicated ugly system of concrete breakwaters to keep it in and make the beach more beachlike, but the locals say it’ll be washed away at the first spring tide. Determined kids wade out a long way into soft brown silt to reach the tepid water, which barely has energy to gather itself into what you could call a wave. It’s hard to believe that the same boys and girls who have PlayStations and the Internet still care to go paddling with shrimping nets in the rock pools left behind when the tide recedes, but they do, absorbed in it for hours as children might have been decades and generations ago. It’s a summer day with the same blue sky and unserious puffs of creamy cloud as on the postcards. The high street is festive with bunting and flowers; the toy shops have set out their metal baskets of buckets and spades and polythene flags; the cafés are doing a good business selling cream teas and chips. There are a lot of people holidaying in Somerset this year. Pink-skinned in shorts and sunglasses, with troops of children, they buy locally made ice cream, they visit the steam railway kept open by enthusiasts, they change twenty-pound notes into piles of coins and lose them all in the machines in the amusement arcades. Not so long ago, these old seaside resorts seemed to have been passed over forever, left to the elderly by people rushing to take their vacations abroad. But thanks to the newfound reluctance to fly they are popular again. Now the tourists are congratulating themselves: with this weather, who needs to go abroad, who wants to? Across the road from the beach are the Jubilee Gardens (that’s Victoria’s Jubilee, not the recent one), where there’s a putting green and even a bandstand, though today there’s no band. Two young women have established a messy family camp of bags, cardigans, plastic water bottles, and discarded children’s tops, half in and half out of the dappled shade of some kind of ornamental tree that neither can identify—although both, lying back on the grass, have stared dreamily up into the delicate lattice of its twigs and leaves, stirring against the light with an effect like glinting water. The children (they have three each) wheel in and out around their mothers’ center, wanting drink, money, kisses, indignantly demanding justice. The women hardly interrupt their conversation to dole out what’s needed, to open up their purses, issue stern ultimatums. They talk, sometimes across the heads of the youngest ones, curled up hot and heavy in their laps, sticky tears pressing crumples into their summer dresses. The baby dozes in her pushchair, and later lies on a blanket blinking up into the tree, responding with little jerks of her arms and legs to the shifting patterns of light. It’s easy to guess even from the outward appearance of these women and their assorted children that they’re not staying at any of the guesthouses in this resort town, and certainly not at the refurbished holiday camp further along the front. They don’t look wealthy (the kids’ clothes are hand-me-down, the purses are worn, and the women frown into them), but they look, if it still means anything, bohemian. Rachel’s curving calves and strong bare arms are defiantly untanned; her luxuriant, nearly black hair is pinned up untidily on her head. Janie, who went to art college, wears a short gauzy green dress with seventies-style pink paisley patterns. Her hair, which is light brown and dead straight, is cut in some style that Rachel at once deplores and admires: ragged uneven lengths, as if it had been chopped off at random. They are in their early thirties, both at that piquant moment of physical change when the outward accidents of flesh are beginning to be sharpened from inside by character and experience. They have come to town just for the day. Rachel and her husband, Sam, have a cottage inland, where they spend their holidays; Janie and her partner, Vince, are visiting. Rachel and Janie have been best friends since school. They did their degrees together in Brighton and shared a house. When Rachel moved back to Bristol, where they grew up (Sam was working for the BBC there), Janie went to look for work in London and stayed. They’re not obviously alike: Rachel is impulsive and can sound bossy and loudly middle class; Janie’s more wary and ironic. But they tell each other everything, almost everything. During the long months between visits, they talk for hours on the phone. Both of them have other friends, but it’s not the same: there’s no one else to whom they can unfold their inner lives with the same freedom. The two have been talking intensely today, ever since they woke up. First, Rachel came into Janie’s bedroom and sat on the bed in her pajamas while Janie fed Lulu, and then they talked as they clambered on all fours to tidy the children’s mattresses, laid out end to end in the attic. Hours ago, they got the children dressed and drove into town; this was supposedly to do some shopping and get the kids out of the house so that Sam could get on with his writing, but all along they had in mind exactly the treat they are enjoying now—this lazy, delicious, stolen afternoon doing nothing, escaped from the men, talking on and on about them. They dip into their purses extravagantly, and the children sense the possibility of largesse. The older boys race off to the toy shop to buy guns for themselves, windmills for the little ones. In order to earn this day in the sunshine with their beautiful children running around them, how many toiling domesticated days haven’t these young mothers put in? Both of them do a token amount of work outside the home—Janie does a few hours of art therapy with special-needs children, Rachel does a bit of copy editing—but truly for years they have been, half involuntarily, absorbed into the warm vegetable soup of motherhood, which surprisingly resembles their own mothers’ lives, thirty years ago. They don’t know quite how this happened; before the children were born, their relationships had shown every sign of being modern ones, built around the equal importance of two careers and the sharing of housework. Neither is exactly unhappy, but what has built up in them instead is a sense of surplus, of life unlived. Somewhere else, while they are absorbed in pushchairs and fish fingers and wiping bottoms, there must be another world, of intense experiences for grownups. They feel as if, through their perpetual preoccupation with infantile things, they, too, had become infants; as if their adult selves were ripening and sweetening all in vain, wasted. You can see this sensual surplus in them. It glistens on their skin and in their eyes, like cream rising to the top of the milk (though neither of them is fat: Rachel is tall and muscular, Janie slight and boyish, only her breasts rounded because she’s breast-feeding). They half know this about themselves, how visibly they exude their sexual readiness. They know that they make a picture, spread out there under the trees in their summer dresses, with their brood gambolling around them. The children press home their opportunity and clamor for ice cream. “Pretty please, Mummy, pretty please.” “It’ll keep us happy for much longer—you won’t have to worry about us.” The guns the boys have bought were made in Germany, and, on the packages, inside the bright-orange explosion where it says “Bang Bang” in English it also says “Toller Knall,” which is presumably the German equivalent. The children point the guns at one another’s heads, shouting, “Toller Knall, Toller Knall,” then laugh delightedly at how unthreatening it sounds. “You know I can’t bear that,” Rachel says. “I have a thing about guns pointing at heads.” “Mum, they’re only plastic toys,” Joshua explains patiently. “It would probably be more dangerous to poke him with my finger.” But the boys give way cheerfully and aim at imaginary rabbits in the grass instead, squinting along their sights. “Sam actually encourages it,” Rachel says sotto voce to Janie. “He wants to take Joshua to join a gun club. He came out with all this stuff about teaching him respect for weapons.” “But didn’t he used to fulminate against the arms trade?” “Oh, probably at some point. But for me it’s not his principles that are the problem: have you ever seen him trying to put up shelves? It’s not Joshua I’m worried for. Sam shouldn’t be allowed anywhere near a gun.” Melia, Janie’s middle child (much more difficult than the charming boys), pretends to get upset about the rabbits and ends up bursting into real tears. Rachel sometimes wonders whether Melia wouldn’t respond better to a little less understanding, but she preserves a diplomatic silence while Janie comforts and negotiates. Rachel thinks that she has taken more naturally to motherhood than Janie has; Janie is dreamier and misses her solitude painfully. “Maybe ice cream would be a good idea,” Janie decides. The children plant their colored plastic windmills in the grass and run to queue at the yellow-and-white painted café. Rachel is telling Janie about a man, Kieran, a friend of Sam’s in London, whom she thinks she might have some sort of a thing going with. Janie knows Kieran, too, though not well. “It’s really nothing, it’s probably nothing,” Rachel says. “You’ll think I’m making it all up. Only it’s funny that he turned up one evening last month, while he was back in Bristol visiting his parents. I’m sure he knew that Sam was going to be out. I had Sukey and Dom in the bath, I had my sleeves rolled up, I was in my foulest old clothes, my hair was just pulled into this elastic band, I’m sure I hadn’t brushed it since I got up in the morning.” “Maybe he goes for that,” Janie says. “You know how some men have this idea of domesticated women that really turns them on—only the ones who aren’t living with them, needless to say.” “Joshua answered the doorbell or I wouldn’t have even bothered. And then I thought he’d just leave because Sam wasn’t there, but he came into the bathroom and he helped me out with the kids and actually it was really nice—we just got on so well. He cleaned the bath out afterward while I was reading to them; I didn’t even realize that till later. Sam would never, ever, think of cleaning out the bath unless I asked him to. I always thought Kieran was such a serious sort of intellectual—you know, only interested in talking about Habermas or Adorno or something. But we were joking away, and then he was telling me about his sister’s children. Dom was splashing us with his plastic ducks, we were completely soaked, and I was so apologetic, only Kieran said he loved it. ‘I love it,’ he said. And then I thought afterward, What was he trying to say? What exactly did he love? Only perhaps I’m taking it the wrong way.” Janie thinks that Rachel is dangerously susceptible to men; she thinks that her own skeptical suspicion of them makes her much shrewder in her assessments of their motivations and characters. Also, she doesn’t know how Rachel can put up with Sam’s moods. She has her own problems with Vince, but she would never allow anyone to domineer over her life the way Sam does over Rachel’s, with his black looks and his silences and his stormings. “I almost dialled Kieran’s number the other night,” Rachel says. “The week before we came to the cottage. I did dial it, but I put the phone down before it even rang. I pretended to myself that calling him was just a natural friendly thing to do. I was only going to complain to him—you know, make a funny story out of the sort of day I’d had. Perhaps I should have. And I was going to say that he should come and spend a few days with us in the country.” Janie is solicitous. She is feeding Lulu, the shadows of the tree’s leaves flickering over her bared breast and the baby’s head moving with its rhythmic sucking. “Don’t get hurt,” she says. Rachel throws herself restlessly down on her back on the grass. “I should be so lucky,” she says. “As if.” “I’d wait,” Janie says, “for him to contact you.” Later in the afternoon, Rachel takes the children for a round on the putting green. They are hopelessly slow because there are so many of them and the little ones take so many shots to get the ball in the hole, even when Joshua and Tom cheat gallantly on their behalf. Melia throws down her iron, sulks, traipses after them, joins in again. By the time they are halfway around the green several groups of players are backed up behind them and Rachel takes a break to let the others past. She runs over to where Janie is watching from beside the pushchair. She has had an idea. When they’ve finished on the green, why don’t they buy sausages and chips at the café so they don’t have to cook tonight? This liberation seems of a piece with the lovely day. The drudgery ahead—peeling potatoes, frying, feeding, washing up—lifts from the evening as lightly as a floating cloud. Why not? Life might be easy after all. Rachel phones Sam and Vince on her mobile to tell them to cook themselves something; she has to walk off a little distance between the trees before she can get a decent signal. When Rachel switches off the mobile and turns around, Janie thinks for a moment that Sam must have said something vile. Rachel’s face is concentrated with surprise; she walks back across the grass as if she were looking carefully where to put her bare feet. “You’ll never guess,” she says. “What?” “Kieran’s turned up.” “Oh, Rach.” “But I really never did phone him. I never asked him. He’s been before, a couple of times. Apparently, he just turned up this afternoon. He knew we’d be at the cottage because Sam mentioned it. Sam’s going to make them something with pasta.” “Are you glad?” “It feels like a sign: that this thing I’ve imagined must be real, it must be something.” “I suppose so.” “I truly thought I might just be making it up. But you said to wait for him to contact me and he has. Sort of. It feels serious.” In all the agitations of the putting, Rachel’s hair has come partly out of its pins; long strands coil on her neck. She’s statuesque, with waxy creamy skin, like a Reynolds portrait; she doesn’t have the physical lightness or fluidity that suggests affairs, easy transitions between men, concealments. The boys are shouting from the green; it’s time for them to take their turn again. She picks up her putting iron thoughtfully. Janie can feel excitement radiating out from her like heat. Kieran’s arrival could have been awkward for the men back at the cottage, because Kieran and Sam have been friends for years, since they were at Cambridge, whereas Sam knows Vince only because of Janie and thinks of him as a bit of a lightweight. All morning, while Sam was at work on the computer, he was uneasily suppressing an awareness of Vince at loose ends downstairs, strolling around the rooms, reading yesterday’s paper, getting himself something to eat. Sam was irritated that the girls hadn’t taken Vince with them when they went to town; and then that they were staying out so long. However, Kieran has brought with him a big polythene packet of weed, which, as they set about rolling it up and smoking it, produces an immediate cheerful camaraderie. They sprawl in the plastic garden chairs in the sunshine, smoking and drinking cup after cup of tea. Sam is so relieved that he doesn’t have to make conversation with Vince all by himself that he becomes expansively friendly toward him. He always forgets what it is that Vince does for a living (usually he covers this up by talking about the contemporary novel: he published one himself three years ago and is supposed to be working on the next); tactfully now, he leads the conversation around to the kind of crossover electronic music he remembers Vince likes, and Vince tells them that he designed the lighting for a recent concert in the Queen Elizabeth Hall. Vince is eager to please. He is lean, with the wedge-narrow face of a well-bred collie, and his hair is cut to flop into his eyes like bleached-pale silk. He has the kind of good looks that men don’t mind imagining that women like. Sam doesn’t hold it against Vince that he himself is bulky-shouldered and putting on weight. His brown curls are thinning on top and he wears little gold-rimmed glasses; he fancies he looks a little like middle-period Coleridge. The peace of the afternoon seems deeper because of all the children’s toys lying where they were dropped, the bikes beached on their sides, the swing hanging still. The cottage is tucked into the bottom of a crease worked deep between the rounded slopes of the hills; sheep are grazing in the field that rises so steeply behind the cottage you can almost touch the roof from the path that winds along its lower edge. In the wide bowlful of tender light the buzzards sail superbly, mewing and turning their pale undersides to the declining sun. Wrens are pecking the greenfly from Rachel’s sweet-pea plants. Kieran is telling the others about his grandfather who worked as a salesman for a company selling private telephone systems, mostly to the collieries; he did business in the West Country coalfield that’s not far from the cottage, worked out and half forgotten now. The telephones they used down the mines were made of cast iron, his grandfather had told him; they weighed a hundredweight each. Kieran is shorter than the other two; he has a big distinctive head with deep-hooded eyes, whose glance mostly idles downward, and several days’ growth of strong black beard. His body is indefinite, shapeless because it’s wrapped as always in dark loose clothes, more layers than are necessary in this weather. “He worked in North Wales, too,” Kieran says, “putting in systems for the slate mines. Do you know that when the slate miners were dying of silicosis, average life expectancy thirty-five to forty, the local doctors wrote a paper blaming it on the stewed tea they drank?” Kieran always knows things; he trusts facts more than opinions. He talks with his usual concentration and exactitude, but something arouses in Sam the solicitude for his welfare that has been an element of their relationship from the beginning. Kieran’s face is puffy and a nerve is jumping beside his right eye; he hunches over the rolling papers in a tension of fatigue that makes Sam worry that the job in cardiology at Barts is disillusioning, and that Kieran is beginning to brood over this second career, which was supposed to save his life from academic futility. He isn’t telling his stories anymore, about medical dilemmas or patients presenting extraordinary symptoms. In these stories, his work in medicine seemed to open up a whole world of meaning. Rachel telephones the cottage to tell Sam that she and Janie are going to buy a meal for the kids in town. He’s relieved that she doesn’t seem to mind Kieran’s turning up. After another cup of tea and a toke, Sam goes into the kitchen and opens the door of the fridge and stands frowning perplexedly at what’s inside, then begins with an air of bemusement, as if he’d never done it before, to make the tomato sauce he’s actually been able to cook for at least fifteen years. He rattles around in the kitchen drawers hunting for the wooden spoons and the garlic press. Kieran in the garden opens a bottle of wine he brought. Vince turns out to know something about wine. Kieran doesn’t; he just drinks it. He’s the same with food: he eats only to fuel his system. Vince was uncomfortable at first, alone with these two men who are a few years older than him and whose displays of cleverness he finds both irritating and intimidating. He reads, but he hasn’t read any of the books they’ve read. (He knows that they studied literature, but as far as he can see they talk mostly about philosophy.) This morning, when Janie went out with Rachel and all the kids and Sam was writing upstairs, Vince wondered what point there was in his being here (wasn’t the whole idea of the holiday that he was supposed to spend more time with the kids?), and he even contemplated driving back to London and coming down to pick them up at the weekend. He was just wasting days that he could be putting in at the studio. After a few smokes, though, his sociable nature has reasserted itself and he is enjoying himself. He’s looking forward to the kids coming back, too; he really does want to spend more time with them. When Sam goes into the kitchen to cook, Vince finds himself telling Kieran in great detail about the logistics of the lighting setup he’s arranging for a show at the Albany. He is gratified by Kieran’s questioning. He tells him about the concern in the industry over the decline in the quality of sound recording in television and documentary work, now that there are lightweight video cameras and no one bothers to employ the old sound guys anymore. The bectu newsletter is full of laments for past standards. Kieran makes a much better listener than Sam, Vince thinks. Sam always wants to take over the conversation. Vince has tried to read Sam’s novel but can’t get past the second chapter. None of the characters ever have a thought that doesn’t lead into dense thickets of historical and cultural association. There is no room left over for anything actually to happen. When Janie and Rachel come through the gate into the garden, Kieran stands up at once from where the men (stoned, by the looks of it) are sprawled on garden chairs. There are plates on the table and a saucepan lying nearby on the grass. Both women see quite clearly that the moment they come into view, with their arms full of children and shopping, Kieran is looking for Rachel, and that on his face when he sees her there is a moment’s naked flash of feeling: of relief, perhaps, or desperation. He hurries forward to help them. In reaction to this glimpse of emotion, Rachel becomes queenly and remote, retreating into her role as homemaker, unpacking the shopping into the kitchen cupboards and the fridge, running hot water for the dirty pasta plates. Soon after their return home, Sukey begins to droop. This isn’t usual: she is a cheerful little girl with stout strong arms and legs and a mop of straw-textured fair hair. Now she whines and clings to Rachel and says that her head hurts. Her face is flushed and hot, and as soon as Rachel gets her settled on the sofa with her doggie and her blanket she throws up over everything. “Too much sun. My fault,” Rachel says, on her hands and knees with a cloth and a bucket of disinfectant and water. Sukey lies languidly across Sam’s lap, wrapped in a sheet and hanging onto a plastic bowl. “I should have insisted she wear her hat. I should have made them stay in the shade more.” “We needn’t go to the pub,” Sam says. “If you think we oughtn’t.” There has been a plan for all the adults to go to the pub, which is ten minutes’ walk down the road into the village, leaving Joshua and Tom in charge. (In case of emergency, the boys could telephone the pub; the landlord is a friend and wouldn’t mind.) “The rest of you go,” Rachel says. “I’m sure there’s nothing to worry about. But I’m feeling quite tired. I fancy an early night. And I probably should just keep an eye on her.” Kieran drops on his haunches till he’s at Sukey’s level, he speaks to her gravely, sweetly; she yields herself, allows him to feel her forehead, pull back her eyelids and look into her pupils, take her pulse. His fingers, with their bitten yellow nails and curling black hairs, are dark and coarsely male against her pearl-pink skin. Rachel’s eyes are fixed on Kieran’s face, calmly enough. He says to Sukey, “Mummy knows exactly what the matter is. I would trust her. Mummies usually know best. I don’t think there’s anything to worry about here.” And he smiles into Rachel’s expectant open gaze. Kieran doesn’t smile very often. When he does, his face becomes quite jolly and ordinary. It’s like a reprieve, as if a daunting problem had unexpectedly turned out to be easy. “Why don’t you see how she is in half an hour?” he says. “If she goes off to sleep peacefully enough I don’t see any reason why you shouldn’t leave her. It would probably be good for you to get a break.” “Maybe,” Rachel murmurs gratefully. Sam thinks that if Kieran can get this out of being a doctor—this exchange of authority and submissive trust—then perhaps everything will be all right for him after all. Upstairs, fifteen minutes later, Janie and Rachel are giving Dom and Melia a bath. “Rach, why don’t you go to the pub? I really don’t mind staying in. Anyway, I’m worried in case Lulu doesn’t sleep through. I can call you if Sukey’s sick again.” “No, honestly. I’d rather not.” “I just thought, you know, if Kieran’s only here for tonight.” Rachel hides her involuntary smile in Dom’s frog-flannel. “There is something, isn’t there?” she whispers. “God, yes,” Janie whispers back. “The way he looked at you when we came in.” “I know.” “Then go to the pub.” “No. I don’t think so. I’m not ready. I’m not ready for it yet.” Sukey doesn’t throw up again; her temperature comes down. Rachel reads to her and then sits beside her bed until she is soundly asleep. All the other children are asleep, too, by this time, except Joshua and Tom, who are watching a video in the front room. Rachel goes downstairs and out into the garden. The light is draining imperceptibly out of the sky; the velvety plum color of the copper beech is drinking up darkness. Yellow light from inside the house glitters on the stone flags of the patio. Through the French windows, the TV flickers behind the silhouetted heads of the boys intently watching. Vince comes back from the pub for his fags. He stops to smoke one in the garden. She has one, too, although she doesn’t usually, and they experience a rush of mutual friendliness. Vince thinks Rachel’s a sweet woman, not his type but warm and nurturing. Rachel feels sorry for Vince—she thinks Janie gives him a hard time. He tells her that he’s really enjoying himself (he’s forgotten how he felt in the morning). He says that this place means a lot to him, that he and Janie really ought to try to move out of London. It isn’t fair bringing kids up there; they need wide open spaces and contact with nature. Rachel listens to him indulgently, knowing that nothing will come of it, and that Vince would fade away with boredom in the country. When he’s gone, a clamor of rooks passes overhead. It’s darker now. Moths come visiting Rachel’s chive flowers and nicotiana in a pale blur of movement. A bat stirs the air with a beat of its leathery wings. There’s a moment’s impulse when she thinks she’ll tell the boys that she’s going to the pub after all, and that they have to listen for the babies. But she doesn’t move, she stays planted there in the still air darting with invisible movement, washed in streams of incense from the balsam poplar. On the way home from the pub, Janie and Kieran fall behind the others because she stops to listen when he says that he can hear an owl hunting. She is genuinely delighted when she hears it, too. These two haven’t spoken together much during the evening. Sam and Kieran were arguing about Iraq (it’s typical of Kieran that he supports the war, when no one else does). She and Vince were having one of their talks, about how he’s got to start being home more, to make space for her to get on with her own art work. (Vince didn’t point out tonight, not in so many words, that his work brings in money and hers doesn’t.) Janie has never quite trusted Kieran; she’s always thought that he was one of Sam’s Cambridge types, too absorbed in himself, preoccupied with the game of jockeying for intellectual position. She wonders what he’s up to with Rachel. The stretch of road outside the pub is lit, but when they turn off to climb the hill to the cottage they are plunged into a darkness deep and complete and astonishing to these city folk, who are used to the perpetual urban orange seepage of light. They didn’t think to bring a torch. Walking into that darkness, solid and prohibitive, feels as counterintuitive as walking into a wall. Janie falters. “I’ve no idea where I’m going,” she says. “Hold on to me,” Kieran says, reaching out. “Though I’ve absolutely no idea, either.” “I suppose at least if we fall into anything we’ll go together.” They can’t see each other; she feels his hand come searching, and she clasps his upper arm, when she finds it, with both her hands. She remembers what he’s wearing—a green shirt patterned with yellow motifs in some kind of slippery material—as if it were suddenly significant, although she’s been looking at it without interest (if anything, with distaste) all evening. The slippery fabric slides under her fingers. His hand blunders against her bare arm under the cardigan she has slung across her shoulders. They can hear the others’ voices some way ahead. “O.K., Janie?” Vince calls. “Fine!” “Bloody dark!” Kieran shouts. “Bloody countryside!” “Navigate by the bloody stars!” Sam shouts back. Kieran and Janie have both drunk enough to be unsteady, hanging onto each other in the middle of the road without any visual clues to help them. They stagger and he grabs her and pulls her against him and then begins to kiss her face with a beery smoky garlicky mouth (the garlic was in the pasta, which she and Rachel didn’t eat). He lands kisses randomly at first, on her ear, on the side of her nose. After a moment’s surprise, she kisses him back, putting her hand up into his hair and finding his mouth with hers. It’s a long time since she’s properly kissed anyone but Vince; she’s pleased that she seems to manage it suavely and skillfully. Then her head swims and they lose their balance and almost fall. He sets his feet apart on the road so he can support her; he puts an arm around behind her shoulders. “Who are you?” he says softly, so close she can taste his breath on her. “It’s so dark it could be anyone.” She can smell the salty sourness of his hair, too, as if he didn’t bother with shampoo. “I’ve no idea,” she says. “Who are you? What just happened?” “Don’t stop it. Don’t stop, please.” His voice is urgent, pleading. He means it. Janie thinks that this is what he meant, when he looked at Rachel in the afternoon: he was just desperate to lose himself like this. She will do just as well, for his need, as Rachel; and yet that’s not insulting but exhilarating. She feels the same way: he will do for her, just as well. She doesn’t stop. She starts again. His mouth is hot and liquid. His lips feel swollen and thin-skinned; his beard growth is long enough to be sleek and not stubble-rough against her mouth and her wet cheek. She thinks of the many parties at Sam and Rachel’s where she has stayed dumb while Kieran has spoken out eloquently on some subject; and now that same tongue of his is shyly tentative against hers, and hers is bolder. It’s marvellously simplifying that there’s no time for this to become anything more than a kiss. They have only this moment before they have to follow the others and go back inside the light. Vince calls again. His voice sounds a long way off. “We’re listening to the owl,” Kieran shouts back. It makes a space between them. They draw slightly apart. “Look what you’ve done,” Janie says. She couldn’t have said this to his face, in the light. “What have I done?” She finds his hand, presses it against her breasts, where they have leaked soaked circles of milk onto her dress. “I’m still feeding. I’m very full. Ready for the baby when I get home. You made it come.” “I didn’t know that happened,” he says, not embarrassed, in a voice of calm scientific interest. When he says that, Janie intuits a warning; faintly, like a note sounding far off in the hills. She has an instant’s intimation of how she could, in a different life from the one she has had so far, come to need this terribly and not be able to get it: this calm impersonal interest of his, turned on her. But for the time being it is Kieran who is desperate. Rachel thinks that she’s going to lie awake, absorbed in the momentousness of her life today. She’s thinking that she’s not going to go through with this thing with Kieran, not now, not this time. But that doesn’t spoil the euphoria that comes from knowing that he wants her, knowing that he has pursued her down here. It makes her feel as if there were a glorious abundant tide of secret possibility flowing around the world, enough for everyone. She feels that she will be able now to dip into this tide and take her share anytime she chooses to. Sam is lying flat, snoring with his mouth open, because he’s been drinking and smoking. She shoves him hard to tell him to turn over, and then when she cuddles up against his broad hot back she falls asleep almost at once. Janie has brought Lulu into bed to feed her; Vince is reading a computer magazine. Her treachery in relation to him doesn’t seem important yet. (Vaguely, she thinks he owes her this.) If she imagines Rachel finding out what she’s just done with Kieran, after everything they talked about all afternoon, she feels a sickish kind of unease. She doesn’t for one moment, though, believe that she ought to have deflected Kieran’s kiss, which opened this thrilling new space in the night. A real adventure with a man mustn’t be wasted. Everything is running away so fast; your deepest responsibility is to snatch at all the living you can. And, anyway, she only kissed him. Kieran asked if he could call her and she said she didn’t know yet, but as the baby sucks she feels herself hollowed out from her old life, empty and hungry, filled up with an excited wanting as painful and bloating as wind. Rachel has made up the sofa bed with sheets and a duvet for Kieran. She kept worriedly sniffing it and saying that if it smelled of vomit then he could have their bed and she and Sam would be quite happy down here. He hadn’t been able to smell anything then but now he can. He lies awake wondering how families manage in this awful perpetual twilight of false sleep: the landing lights left on, the rustlings and the snatches of childish sleep talk, the bare feet padding downstairs, the murmured parental admonishments, the baby’s loud cry at some point, Sam’s snoring, the toilet light left on after a child’s visit so that the fan keeps whirring until he goes upstairs himself to switch it off. He hears one of them climb into bed with Sam and Rachel. He hears the bed creak and protest as the adults move over. He remembers glancing into Sam and Rachel’s bedroom on his way to the toilet this afternoon when he arrived. The king-size bed, its grubby Habitat striped sheets and heaped-up duvet littered with clothes and toys and Rachel’s hairbrush and face cream, looked to him then like the outward embodiment of something he wanted, something he had missed out on. In the thin hours before dawn, the truth seems bleaker. He isn’t a good sleeper at the best of times. The duvet is too hot and then when he pushes it off he is too cold. He finds himself longing for the perfect silence of his own room, which he thought was what he wanted to escape from, coming down here. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Trespass	When he and Cath broke up, he thought about joining the Ramblers, but it seemed too obviously sad a thing to do. He could imagine the conversation: “Hi, Geoff. Sorry to hear about you and Cath. How’re you doing?” “Oh, fine, thanks. I’ve joined the Ramblers.” “Good move.” He could see the rest of it, too: getting the magazine, studying the open-to-all invitation—“meet 10:30, Saturday 12th, in car park immed. SE of Methodist Chapel”—then cleaning his boots the night before, cutting an extra sandwich just in case, maybe taking an extra tangerine as well, and turning up at the car park with (despite all his warnings to himself) a hopeful heart. A hopeful heart waiting to be bruised. And so it would be a case of getting through the walk, saying cheery farewells, and then home to eat the leftover sandwich and tangerine for his supper. Now, that would be sad. Of course, he carried on walking. Most weekends, in most weathers, he’d be out with his boots and pack, his water bottle and his map. Nor was he going to keep away from the walks he’d done with Cath. They weren’t “their” walks, after all; and, if they were, wouldn’t he be reclaiming them by doing them by himself? She didn’t own the circuit from Calver: along the Derwent, through Froggatt Woods to Grindleford, perhaps a diversion to the Grouse Inn for lunch, then past the Bronze Age stone circle, lost in summer months amid the bracken, to the grand surprise of Curbar Edge, and home again. She didn’t own that; nobody did. Afterward, he made a note in his walking log: “2hrs 45mns.” With Cath, it used to take 3hrs 30mns, and an extra 30mns if they went to the Grouse for a sandwich. That was one of the things about being single: you saved time. You walked quicker, you got home and drank a beer quicker, you ate your supper quicker. And then the sex you had with yourself, that was quicker, too. You gained all this extra time, Geoff thought—extra time in which to be lonely. Stop that, he told himself. You aren’t allowed to be a sad person; you’re only allowed to be sad. “I thought we were going to get married.” “That’s why we aren’t,” Cath had replied. “I don’t understand.” “No, you don’t.” “Will you please explain?” “No.” “Why not?” “Because that’s the whole point. If you can’t see, if I have to explain, that’s why we’re not getting married.” “You’re not being logical.” “I’m also not getting married.” Forget it, forget it, it’s gone. On the one hand, she liked having you make the decisions; on the other, she found you controlling. On the one hand, she liked living with you; on the other, she didn’t want to go on living with you. On the one hand, she knew you’d be a good father; on the other, she didn’t want to have your children. Logic, right? Forget it. “Hello.” He surprised himself. He didn’t say hello to women he didn’t know in the lunch queue at the Copper Kettle. He only said hello to women he didn’t know on walking paths, where you got a nod or a smile or a raised trekking pole in reply. But—actually, he did know her. “You’re from the bank.” “Right.” “Lynn.” “Very good.” A small moment of genius, remembering her plastic nametag through the bulletproof glass. And she was having the vegetarian lasagna as well. There was only one free table. And it was just sort of easy. He knew that she worked in the bank; she knew that he taught at the school. She’d moved to the town a couple of months previously and, no, she hadn’t been up to the Tor yet. Would she be O.K. in trainers? The next Saturday, she wore jeans and a sweater; she seemed half amused, half alarmed as he got his boots and pack out of the car and pulled on his scarlet mesh-lined Gore-Tex jacket. “You’ll need water.” “Will I?” “Unless you don’t mind sharing.” She nodded; they set off. As they climbed out of the town, the view broadened to include both her bank and his school. He let her set the pace. She walked easily. He wanted to ask how old she was, whether she went to the gym. He wanted to tell her that she looked taller now than when she was sitting behind the glass. Instead, he pointed out the ruins of an old slateworks and the rare breed of sheep—Jacob, were they?—that Henderson had started farming for people down south who wanted lamb that didn’t taste like lamb, and were happy to pay for it. Halfway up, it began to drizzle, and he grew anxious about her trainers on the wet shale near the top. He stopped, unzipped his pack, and gave her a spare waterproof. She took it as if it were quite normal that he’d brought it. He liked that. She didn’t ask whose it was, who’d left it behind. He passed her the water bottle; she drank and wiped the rim. “What else have you got in there?” “Sandwiches, tangerines. Unless you want to turn back.” “As long as you haven’t got a pair of those awful plastic trousers.” “No.” He did, of course. And not just his own but a pair of Cath’s that he’d brought for her. Something in him, something bold and timid at the same time, wanted to say, “Actually, I’m wearing North Cape CoolMax boxers with the single-button fly.” After they’d started sleeping together, he took her to the Great Outdoors. They got her boots—a pair of Brasher Supalites—and he thought, as she stood up in them, walked tentatively up and down, then did a little tap dance, how incredibly sexy small female feet looked in walking boots. They got her three pairs of ergonomic trekking socks designed to absorb pressure peaks, and her eyes widened at the idea of socks having a left and a right like shoes. Three pairs of inner socks, too. They got her a daypack, or a daysack, as the hunky assistant preferred to call it, by which point Geoff felt the fellow was beginning to get out of line. He’d shown Lynn how to position the hip belt, tighten the shoulder straps, and adjust the top tensioners; now he was patting the pack as if he were patting Lynn at the same time. “And a water bottle,” Geoff said firmly, to cut all that off. They got her a waterproof jacket in dark green, which set off the flame of her hair; then he waited and let Hunk suggest waterproof trousers and get laughed at in reply. At the cash desk, he handed over his credit card. “No, you can’t.” “I’d like to. I’d really like to.” “But why?” “I’d like to. Must be your birthday soon. Well, sometime in the next twelve months. Got to be.” “Thank you,” Lynn said, but he could tell she was a bit edgy about it. “Will you wrap them up again for my birthday?” “I’ll do more than that. I’ll clean your Brashers specially. Oh, yes,” he said to the cashier. “And we’d better have some polish. Classic Brown, please.” Before they went walking next, he dubbined her boots to make the leather supple and strengthen the waterproofing. As he slipped his hand inside the fresh-smelling Brashers, he noted again, as he had in the shop, that she took half a size smaller than Cath. Half a size? It felt like a full size to him. They did Hathersage and Padley Chapel; Calke Abbey and Staunton Harold; Dove Dale, as it narrows and deepens to Milldale; Lathkill Dale from Alport to Ricklow Quarry; Cromford Canal and the High Peak Trail. They climbed out of Hope to Lose Hill, then along what he promised her was the most scenic ridge walk in the entire Peak District until they came to Mam Tor, where the paragliders gathered: huge men who sweated up the hill with vast packs on their backs, then spread out their canopies like laundry on the grassy slope and waited for the updraft to lift them off their feet and into the sky. “Isn’t that thrilling,” she said. “Wouldn’t you like to do that?” Geoff thought of men in hospital wards with broken backs, of paraplegics and quadriplegics. He thought of mid-air collisions with light aircraft. He thought of not being able to control the wind and getting carried higher and higher into the clouds, of coming down in unknown landscape, of getting lost and scared and peeing yourself. Of not having your boots on a path and a map in your hand. “Sort of,” he replied. For him, freedom lay on the ground. He told her about the trespass on Kinder Scout in the nineteen-thirties: how walkers and hikers had come out from Manchester in their hundreds to the Duke of Devonshire’s grouse moors to protest against lack of access to the countryside; how it had been a peaceful day, except when a drunken gamekeeper shot himself with his own gun; how the trespass had led to the creation of National Parks and registered rights of way; and how the man who’d led it had died recently but there were still a few survivors, one of them a hundred and three, living in a Methodist old people’s home not far away. Geoff thought that his story soared better than any bloody paraglider. “They just went trampling across his land like that?” “Not trampling. Tramping, perhaps.” Geoff was pleased with this emendation. “But it was his land?” “Technically, yes. Historically, perhaps not.” “Are you a socialist?” “I’m in favor of the right to roam,” he said cautiously. He didn’t want to put a foot wrong now. “It’s all right. I wouldn’t mind. Either way.” “What are you?” “I don’t vote.” Emboldened, he said, “I’m Labour.” “I thought you would be.” In his walking log, he noted the routes they took, the date, the weather, the duration, ending with an “L” in red, for Lynn. As opposed to a blue “C,” for Cath. The times were about the same, regardless of the initial. Should he get her a trekking pole? He didn’t want to push it—she’d refused all offers of a walking hat, despite having the pros and cons explained to her. Not that there were any cons. Still, better a bare head than a baseball cap. He really couldn’t take a walker in a baseball cap seriously, male or female. He could get her a compass. Except he already had one himself, and rarely consulted it. If ever he broke his ankle, and had to tell her through the pain to set off across the moor using that tumbledown sheepfold as a reference point and to keep heading NNE—showing her how to turn the instrument and set a course—then she could borrow his for the purpose. One compass between two—that was right, somehow. Symbolic, you could say. They did the Kinder Downfall circuit: Bowden Bridge car park, the reservoir, pick up the Pennine Way to the Downfall, fork right at Red Brook and down past Tunstead House and the Kinderstones. He told her about the average rainfall, and how, when it froze, the Downfall turned into a cascade of icicles. A sight for the winter walker. She didn’t answer. Well, anyway, they’d have to get her a fleece if they were going up two thousand feet in winter. He still had the issue of Country Walking with the fleece test in it. In the car park he looked at his watch. “Are we late for something?” “No, just checking. Four and a quarter.” “Is that good or bad?” “It’s good because I’m with you.” It was also good because four and a quarter was what it used to take him and Cath, and, say what you will, Cath was one pretty fit walker. Lynn lit a Silk Cut, as she did at the end of every walk. She didn’t smoke much, and he didn’t really mind, even if he thought it was a stupid habit. Just when she’d done her cardiovascular system a power of good . . . Still, he knew from being a teacher that there were times when you had to confront and times when you took a less direct route. “We could go up again after Christmas. In the New Year.” Yes, he could get her the fleece as a present. She looked at him and took a deep puff on her cigarette. “If the weather gets cold enough, that is. For the icicles.” “Geoff,” she said. “You’re on my space.” “I just—” “You’re on my space.” “Yes, Miss Duke of Devonshire.” But she didn’t think that was funny, and they drove home mainly in silence. Well, perhaps he’d walked her too hard. It was a bit of a stiff pull, a thousand feet or more. He’d put the pizzas in the oven, laid the table, and was just pulling the tab on his first beer when she said, “Look, it’s June. We met in—February?” “Jan. 29.” He corrected automatically, as he did when a pupil guessed 1079 for the Battle of Hastings. “January the twenty-ninth,” she repeated. “Look, I don’t think I can do Christmas.” “Of course. You’ve got family.” “No, I don’t mean my family. I mean, I can’t do Christmas.” Ah, that familiar feeling again: one minute you were steaming along a track, the weight on your shoulders barely noticeable, and then suddenly you were in a pathless scrubland with no waymarks, the mist descending and the ground boggy beneath your feet. When she didn’t go on, he tried to help. “Don’t much like Christmas myself. All that eating and drinking.” “Who knows where I’ll be at Christmas?” “You mean, the bank might transfer you?” He hadn’t thought of that. “Geoff, listen. We met in January, as you pointed out. Things are . . . fine. I’m having a nice time, a nice enough time. . . .” “Gotcha. Right.” It was that stuff again, that stuff he didn’t seem to be getting any better at. “No, course not. Didn’t mean . . . Anyway, I’ll turn the oven up. Crispy base.” He took a swig of his beer. “It’s just—” “Don’t say it. I know. I get you.” He was going to add “Miss Duke of Devonshire” again, but he didn’t, and later, thinking it over, he guessed that it wouldn’t have helped. In September, he persuaded her to take a day off so that they could do the circuit from Calver. It was best to avoid the weekend, when every hiker and rock climber would be crawling over Curbar Edge. They parked in the cul-de-sac next to the Bridge Inn, and set off, passing Calver Mill on the other side of the Derwent. “Richard Arkwright is supposed to have built that,” he said. “1785, I think.” “It’s not a mill anymore.” “No, well, as you see. Offices. Maybe residential. Or a bit of both.” They followed the river, past the thrashing weir, through Froggatt and then Froggatt Woods to Grindleford. As they came out of the woods, the autumn sun, though weak, made him glad of his hat. Lynn still refused to buy one, and he supposed he wouldn’t mention it again until the spring. She’d taken a tan during the summer months, and her freckles showed more than when he’d first met her. There was a sharp climb out of Grindleford, which she took without a murmur; then he led the way across a field to the Grouse Inn. They sat at the bar for a sandwich. Afterward, the barman asked, “Coffee?” She said yes and he said no. He didn’t believe in coffee on a walk. It was a stimulant, and the whole theory was that the walk should be stimulating enough without any assistance. Alcohol: stupid. He’d even come across hikers smoking joints. He told her some of this, which may have been a mistake, because she said, “I’m only having a coffee, right?”—and then lit up a Silk Cut. Not waiting till the end of the walk. She looked at him. “Yes?” “I didn’t say anything.” “You don’t need to.” Geoff sighed. “I forgot to point out the signpost as we got to Grindleford. It’s antique. Nearly a hundred years old. Not many left in the Peak District.” She blew smoke at him, rather deliberately, it seemed. “And, all right, I also read somewhere that low-tar cigarettes are, in fact, just as bad for you, because they make you inhale more deeply to get the nicotine, so actually you’re taking more of the toxins into your lungs.” “Then I may as well switch back to Marlboro Lights.” They retraced their steps, picked up the path, crossed a road, and took a left by the sign for the Eastern Moors Estate. “Is this where the Bronze Age circle is?” “I think so.” “What does that mean?” Fair enough. But there’s no point in not being yourself, is there? He was thirty-one, he had his opinions, he knew stuff. “The circle is coming up on the lefthand side. But I don’t think we should look at it this time.” “This time?” “It’s in the bracken.” “You mean you can’t see it properly.” “No, I don’t mean that. Well, yes, you do see it better at other times of the year. What I mean is that between August and October it’s inadvisable to walk in bracken. Or downwind of it, for that matter.” “You’re going to tell me why, aren’t you?” “Since you ask. If you walk in bracken for ten minutes, you’re liable to ingest anything up to fifty thousand spores. They’re too large to go into your lungs, so they go into your stomach. Tests have found them to be carcinogenic to animals.” “Lucky cows don’t smoke as well.” “There are also ticks that transmit Lyme disease, which—” “So?” “So if you have to walk in bracken you tuck your trousers into your socks, roll your sleeves down, and wear a face mask.” “A face mask?” “Respro makes one. It’s called the Respro Bandit face scarf.” Well, she’d asked, and she was getting the bloody answer. When he’d finished, she said, “Thank you. Now lend me your handkerchief.” She tucked her trousers in, rolled her sleeves down, tied his hankie bandit style around her face, and tramped off into the bracken. He waited upwind. Another thing you could do was get some Bug Proof and put it on your trousers and socks. It killed the ticks on contact. Not that he’d tried it. Yet. When she returned, they set off in silence along the gritstone edge, which was called either Froggatt Edge or Curbar Edge, or both, he didn’t care either way at the moment. The turf was springy up here, and went right to the point where the ground dropped away, sheer for what looked like several hundred feet. It was always a surprise: without a sense of having climbed much, you suddenly found yourself startlingly high, miles above the sunlit valley with its tiny villages. You didn’t need to be a bloody paraglider to get a view like this. There had been quarries around here, from which many of the country’s millstones came. But he didn’t tell her that. Lynn went and stood a yard or two from the edge. You could be looking down at the valley, no one visible for miles, and all of a sudden a helmeted face would pop up at your feet, and a climber would haul himself from nowhere up onto the turf. Life was full of surprises, wasn’t it? Edge climbers, potholers, paragliders. People thought that if you were up in the air you were as free as a bloody bird. Well, you weren’t. There were rules there, too, like everywhere. Geoff didn’t say anything. He didn’t, for that matter, feel anything. Puzzled, of course, but that would pass. He set off again, unaware of whether she was following or not. Another half mile of this high upland, then a sharpish descent back to Calver. He had begun thinking about next week’s work when he heard her scream. He ran back, his pack thumping, the water in his bottle audibly sloshing. “Christ, are you O.K.? Is it your foot? I should have told you about the rabbit holes.” But she just looked at him, expressionlessly. In shock, probably. “Are you hurt?” “No.” “Did you twist your ankle?” “No.” He looked down at her Brasher Supalites: bracken caught in the eyelets, and the morning’s shine gone from them. “Sorry—I don’t understand.” “What?” “Why you screamed.” “Because I felt like it.” Ah, missing waymarks again. “And . . . why did you feel like it?” “Because I did.” No, he must have misheard, or misunderstood, or something. “Look, sorry, maybe I walked you too hard—” “I’m fine, I said.” “Was it because—” “I told you, I felt like it.” They walked down, in silence, to where they’d left the car. As he began unlacing his boots, she lit a cigarette. Well, he was sorry, but he was going to get to the bottom of it. “Was it something to do with me?” “No, it was something to do with me. I’m the one who screamed.” “Do you feel like doing it again? Now?” “No.” “Well, if you did, what would it feel like?” “What do you mean?” “I mean, if you felt like screaming again now, what would it feel like?” “Geoff, it would feel like wanting to scream again now.” “And when do you think you’ll do it again?” She didn’t answer that, and neither of them was surprised. She stamped out her Silk Cut beneath a Supalite and began to undo the laces, flicking bits of bracken onto the tarmac. “4hrs inc lunch Grouse,” he wrote in his walking log. “Weather fine.” He added a red “L” in the final column, beneath a constant vertical of red “L”s. In bed, that night, he slept diagonally, and jolly good luck to him, he thought. The next morning, over breakfast, he leafed through a copy of Country Walking and filled out the application form to join the Ramblers. It said that he could pay either by check or by direct debit. He thought about this for a while, then chose direct debit. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Hunting Knife	Credit Illustration by Floc'h Two rafts were anchored offshore like twin islands. They were the perfect distance to swim to from the beach—exactly fifty strokes out to one of them, then thirty strokes from one to the other. About fourteen feet square, each raft had a metal ladder, and a carpet of artificial grass covering its surface. The water, ten or twelve feet deep at this point, was so transparent you could follow the chains attached to the rafts all the way down to the concrete anchors at the bottom. The swimming area was enclosed by a coral reef, and there were hardly any waves, so the rafts barely bobbed in the water. They seemed resigned to being anchored in that spot with the intense sun beating down on them day after day. I liked to stand out there and look back at the shore, at the long white beach, the red lifeguard tower, the green row of palm trees—it was a gorgeous scene, maybe a little too picture-postcard perfect. Off to the right, the beach ended in a line of dark craggy rocks that led to the hotel cottages where my wife and I were staying. It was the end of June, still early in the tourist season, and there weren’t many people at the hotel or on the beach. There was an American military base nearby, and the rafts lay right in the flight path of the helicopters returning to it. The planes would appear offshore, bisect the space between the rafts, then zoom over the palm trees and disappear. They flew so low you could almost make out the expressions on the faces of the pilots. Still, except for those helicopters swooping overhead, the beach was a sleepy, quiet place—the perfect spot to be left alone on vacation. Each cottage was a white two-story building divided into four units, two on the first floor, two on the second. Our room was on the first floor, with an ocean view. Right outside our window was a stand of white plumeria, and beyond that a garden with a neatly trimmed lawn. Morning and night, the sprinklers made a drowsy clatter on the grass. Past the garden was a swimming pool and a row of tall palm trees, whose huge fronds waved gently in the trade winds. A mother and her son, Americans, were staying in the unit next door to my wife and me. They seemed to have settled in long before we arrived. The mother was about sixty, the son close to our age, twenty-eight or twenty-nine. They resembled each other more than any mother and son I’d ever seen—both with identical long, narrow faces, broad foreheads, tightly set lips. The mother was tall, her posture erect, her movements alert and brisk. The son seemed tall, too, but you couldn’t really say for sure, as he was confined to a wheelchair. Invariably, his mother was behind him, pushing the chair. They were incredibly quiet, their room like a museum. They never had the TV on, though twice I heard music coming from their place—a Mozart clarinet quintet the first time, the second time some orchestral music I didn’t recognize. Richard Strauss was my guess. Other than that, no sound at all. They didn’t use the air-conditioner—they left their front door open instead, so that the cool sea breeze could blow in. But, even with the door open, I never heard them talking. Any conversation they had—they had to talk sometime—must have been more or less an exchange of whispers. This seemed to rub off on my wife and me, and whenever we were in our room we found ourselves speaking in low voices. We often ran across the mother and son in the restaurant, or in the lobby, or on one of the walkways through the garden. The hotel was a small, cozy place, so I guess we were bound to cross paths, whether we wanted to or not. We’d nod to one another as we passed. The mother and son had different ways of nodding hello. The mother would give a strong, affirmative nod; the son barely tilted his head. The impression that these two variant nods gave off, though, was pretty much the same: both greetings began and ended there; nothing lay beyond. We never tried to speak to them. My wife and I had more than enough to talk about between ourselves—whether we should move to a new apartment when we got home, what we should do about our jobs, whether or not to have kids. This was the last summer of our twenties. After breakfast, the mother and son always sat in the lobby and read the newspapers—each methodically proceeding from one page to the next, top to bottom, as if they were locked in a fierce contest to see who could take longer to read the whole thing. Some days it wasn’t newspapers but massive hardcover books. They seemed less like a mother and son than an old married couple who had long ago grown bored with each other. At around ten every morning, my wife and I would take a cooler down to the beach. We’d cover ourselves with sunblock, then sprawl out on our mats on the sand. I’d listen to the Stones or Marvin Gaye on a Walkman, while my wife plowed through a paperback of “Gone with the Wind.” She claimed that she’d learned a lot about life from that book. I’d never read it, so I had no idea what she meant. Every day, the sun would pop up inland, trace a slow path between the rafts—in the opposite direction from the helicopters—then sink leisurely beneath the horizon. At two every afternoon, the mother and son would appear at the beach. The mother always wore a plain light-colored dress and a broad-brimmed white straw hat. The son never wore a hat; he had on sunglasses instead, with a Hawaiian shirt and cotton pants. They’d sit in the shade below the palm trees, the breeze rustling around them, and stare off at the ocean, not really doing anything. The mother sat in a folding beach chair, but the son never got out of his wheelchair. Every now and then, they’d shift slightly in order to stay in the shade. The mother had a silver thermos with her, and occasionally she poured herself a drink in a paper cup or munched on a cracker. Some days they’d leave after half an hour; other days they stayed as long as three. When I went swimming, I could feel them watching me. It was quite a long way from the rafts to the line of palm trees, so I may have been imagining it. Or perhaps I was just being oversensitive, but whenever I clambered up onto one of the rafts I got the distinct feeling that their eyes were trained in my direction. Sometimes the silver thermos would glint like a knife in the sunlight. One listless day followed another, with nothing to distinguish one from the next. You could have changed the order and no one would have noticed. The sun rose in the east, set in the west, the olive-green helicopters zoomed in low, and I downed gallons of beer and swam to my heart’s content. On the afternoon of our last full day at the hotel, I went out for one final swim. My wife was taking a nap, so I left for the beach alone. It was a Saturday, and there were more people there than usual. Tanned young soldiers with buzz cuts and tattooed arms were playing volleyball. Kids were splashing around at the edge of the water, building sandcastles and shrieking in delight at each big wave. But there was almost no one in the water; the rafts were deserted. The sky was cloudless, the sun high overhead, the sand hot. It was after two, but the mother and son still hadn’t made their appearance. I walked out until the water came up to my chest, then did the crawl, heading for the raft on the left. Slowly, testing the resistance of the water with my palms, I swam on, counting the strokes. The water was chilly, and it felt good on my suntanned skin. Swimming in such clear water, I could see my own shadow on the sandy bottom, as if I were a bird gliding through the sky. After I had counted forty strokes, I looked up and, sure enough, there was the raft right ahead of me. Exactly ten strokes later, my left hand touched its side. I floated there for a minute, catching my breath, then grabbed hold of the ladder and scrambled aboard. I was surprised to find someone else already there—an overweight blond woman. I hadn’t seen anyone on the raft when I set out from the beach, so she must have got there while I was swimming toward it. The woman was wearing a tiny bikini—one of those fluttery red things, like the banners that Japanese farmers fly in their fields to warn that they’ve just sprayed chemicals—and she was lying face down. She was so obese that the swimsuit looked even smaller than it was. She seemed to have arrived recently—her skin was still pale, without a trace of a tan. She glanced up for a second and then closed her eyes again. I sat down at the opposite end of the raft, dangled my legs in the water, and looked off at the shore. The mother and son still weren’t under their palm trees. They were nowhere else, either. There was no way I could have missed them: the metal wheelchair, glistening in the sunlight, was a dead giveaway. I felt let down. Without them, a piece of the picture was missing. Perhaps they had checked out of the hotel and gone back to where they came from—wherever that was. But when I’d seen them earlier, in the hotel restaurant, I hadn’t got the impression that they were preparing to leave. They had taken their time eating the daily special and had quietly drunk a cup of coffee afterward—the same routine as always. I lay face down like the blond woman and tanned myself for ten minutes or so, listening to the tiny waves slap against the side of the raft. The drops of water in my ear warmed in the intense sun. “Boy, it’s hot,” the woman said from the other end of the raft. She had a high-pitched, saccharine kind of voice. “It sure is,” I replied. “Do you know what time it is?” “I don’t have a watch, but it must be around two-thirty. Two-forty, maybe?” “Really?” she said, and let out something close to a sigh, as if that might not have been the time she was hoping for. Perhaps she just didn’t care one way or another about the time. She sat up. Sweat was beaded on her like flies on food. The rolls of fat started just below her ears and sloped gently down to her shoulders, then in one continuous series down her chubby arms. Even her wrists and ankles seemed to disappear into those fleshy folds. I couldn’t help thinking of the Michelin Man. As heavy as she was, though, the woman didn’t strike me as unhealthy. She wasn’t bad-looking, either. She simply had too much meat on her bones. I guessed that she was in her late thirties. “You must have been here awhile, you’re so tanned,” she said. “Nine days.” “What an amazing tan,” she said. Instead of responding, I cleared my throat. The water in my ears gurgled as I coughed. “I’m staying at the military hotel,” she said. I knew the place. It was just down the road from the beach. “My brother’s a Navy officer, and he invited me to come. The Navy’s not so bad, you know? The pay’s O.K. They’ve got everything you want, right there on the base, plus perks like this resort. It was different when I was in college. That was during the Vietnam War. Having a career military person in your family then was kind of an embarrassment. You had to slink around. But the world’s really changed since then.” I nodded vaguely. “My ex used to be in the Navy, too,” she went on. “A fighter pilot. He had a tour of duty in Vietnam for two years, then he became a pilot for United. I was a stewardess for United then, and that’s how we met. I’m trying to remember what year we got married. . . . Nineteen-seventy-something. Anyhow, about six years ago. It happens all the time.” “What does?” “You know—airline crews work crazy hours, so they tend to date each other. The working hours and life style are totally off the wall. Anyhow, we get married, I quit my job, and then he takes up with another stewardess and winds up marrying her. That happens all the time, too.” I tried changing the subject. “Where do you live now?” “Los Angeles,” she said. “You ever been there?” “No,” I said. “I was born there. Then my father was transferred to Salt Lake City. Have you been there?” “No.” “I wouldn’t recommend it,” she said, shaking her head. She palmed the sweat from her face. It was strange to think that she’d been a stewardess. I’d seen plenty of brawny stewardesses who could have been wrestlers. I’d seen some with beefy arms and downy upper lips. But I’d never seen one as big as her. Maybe United didn’t care how heavy its stewardesses were. Or maybe she hadn’t been this fat when she had that job. I scanned the beach. No sign yet of the mother and son. The soldiers were still tossing around a volleyball. The lifeguard up on his tower was staring intently at something with his oversized binoculars. Two military helicopters appeared offshore and, like messengers in a Greek tragedy delivering inauspicious news, they thundered solemnly overhead and disappeared inland. Silently, we watched the green machines vanish into the distance. “I bet from up there we look like we’re having a great time,” the woman said. “Sunning ourselves out here on this raft, not a care in the world.” “You may be right.” “Most things look beautiful when you’re way up high,” she said. She rolled over onto her stomach again and closed her eyes. Time passed in silence. Sensing that it was the right moment to leave, I stood up and told her that I had to be getting back. I dived into the water and swam off. Halfway there, I stopped, treading water, and turned back toward the raft. She was watching me and waved. I gave a slight wave back. From far away, she looked like a dolphin. All she needed was a pair of flippers and she could leap back into the sea. In my room, I took a nap, then as evening came on we went down to the restaurant as always and ate dinner. The mother and son weren’t there. And when we walked back to our room from the restaurant their door was closed. Light filtered out through the small frosted-glass pane in the door, but I couldn’t tell if the room was still occupied. “I wonder if they’ve already checked out,” I said to my wife. “They weren’t at the beach or at dinner.” “Everyone checks out eventually,” my wife said. “You can’t live like this forever.” “I guess so,” I agreed, but I wasn’t convinced. I couldn’t picture that mother and son anywhere but right there. We started packing. Once we’d filled our suitcases and stowed them at the foot of the bed, the room suddenly seemed cold and alien. Our vacation was coming to an end. I woke up and glanced at my watch, on the table next to the bed. It was one-twenty. My heart was beating furiously. I slid off the bed and down onto the carpet, sat cross-legged, and took some deep breaths. Then I held my breath, relaxed my shoulders, sat up straight, and tried to focus. A couple of repetitions of this and I was finally calm. I must have swum too much, I decided, or got too much sun. I stood and looked around the room. At the foot of the bed, our two suitcases crouched like stealthy animals. That’s right, I remembered—tomorrow we won’t be here anymore. In the pale moonlight shining through the window, my wife was fast asleep. I couldn’t hear her breathing at all, and it was almost as if she were dead. Sometimes she sleeps that way. When we first got married, it kind of scared me; every now and then, I thought maybe she really was dead. But it was just that silent, bottomless sleep. I stripped off my sweaty pajamas and changed into a clean shirt and pair of shorts. Shoving a miniature bottle of Wild Turkey that was on the table into my pocket, I opened the door quietly and went outside. The night air was chilly and it carried with it the damp odor of all the surrounding plants. The moon was full, bathing the world in a strange hue that you never see in the daytime. It was like looking through a special color filter, one that made some things more colorful than they really are and left others as drab and drained as a corpse. I wasn’t sleepy at all. It was as if sleep had never existed, my mind was so totally clear and focussed. Silence reigned. No wind, no insects, no night birds calling out. Only the far-off sound of waves, and I had to listen carefully to hear even them. I made one slow circuit of the cottage, then cut across the grass. In the moonlight, the lawn, which was circular, looked like an iced-over pond. I stepped softly, trying not to crack the ice. Beyond the lawn was a narrow set of stone steps, and at the top a bar decorated in a tropical theme. Every evening, just before dinner, I had a vodka-tonic at this bar. This late at night, of course, the place was closed, the bar shuttered, and the parasols at each table all neatly folded up like slumbering pterodactyls. The young man in the wheelchair was there, resting an elbow on one of the tables, gazing out at the water. From a distance, his metal wheelchair in the moonlight looked like some precision instrument made especially for the deepest, darkest hours of the night. I had never seen him alone before. In my mind, he and his mother were always a single unit—him in his chair, his mother pushing it. It felt odd—rude, even—to see him like this. He was wearing an orange Hawaiian shirt I’d seen before and white cotton pants. He was just sitting without moving, staring at the ocean. I stood for a while, wondering whether I should signal to him that I was there. But, before I could decide what to do, he sensed my presence and turned around. When he saw me, he gave his usual minimalist nod. “Good evening,” I said. “Good evening,” he answered in a small voice. This was the first time I’d heard him speak. His voice sounded a little sleepy but otherwise perfectly normal. Not too high, not too low. “A midnight stroll?” he asked. “I couldn’t sleep,” I said. He looked me over from top to bottom, and a faint smile came to his lips. “Same here,” he said. “Have a seat, if you’d like.” I hesitated for a moment, then walked over to his table. I pulled out one of the plastic chairs and sat down opposite him. I turned to look in the same direction that he was looking. At the end of the beach were the jagged rocks, like muffins sliced in half, with waves slapping at them at regular intervals. Neat, graceful little waves—as if they’d been measured off with a ruler. Beyond that, there wasn’t much to look at. “I didn’t see you at the beach today,” I said. “I was resting in my room all day,” the young man replied. “My mother wasn’t feeling well.” “I’m sorry to hear that.” “It’s not a physical thing. More of an emotional, nervous condition.” He rubbed his cheek with the middle finger of his right hand. Despite the late hour, his cheeks were as smooth as porcelain, not a trace of stubble. “She’s O.K. now. She’s sound asleep. It’s different from my legs—one good night’s sleep and she’s better. Not completely cured or anything, but at least she’s her usual self again. Come morning, she’ll be fine.” He was silent for thirty seconds, maybe a minute. I uncrossed my legs under the table and wondered if this was the right moment to leave. It was as if my whole life revolved around trying to judge the right point in a conversation to say goodbye. But I missed my chance; just as I was about to tell him I had to go, he spoke up. “There are all kinds of nervous disorders. Even if they have the same cause, there are a million different symptoms. It’s like an earthquake—the underlying energy is the same, but, depending on where it happens, the results are different. In one case, an island sinks; in another, a brand-new island is formed.” He yawned. A long, formal kind of yawn. Elegant, almost. “Excuse me,” he said. He looked exhausted, his eyes were blurry, as if he might fall asleep at any second. I glanced at my watch and realized that I wasn’t wearing one—just a band of white skin on my wrist where my watch had been. “Don’t worry about me,” he said. “I might look sleepy but I’m not. Four hours a night is enough for me, and I usually get that just before dawn. So at this time of night I’m mostly here, just hanging out.” He picked up the Cinzano ashtray on the table, gazed at it for a while as if it were some rare find, then put it back. “Whenever my mother has her nervous condition, the left side of her face gets frozen. She can’t move her eye or her mouth. If you look at that side of her face, it looks like a cracked vase. It’s weird, but it’s not fatal or anything. One night’s sleep and she’s good to go.” I had no idea how to respond, so I just gave a noncommittal nod. A cracked vase? “Don’t tell my mother I told you about this, O.K.? She hates it if anybody talks about her condition.” “Sure,” I said. “Besides, we’re leaving tomorrow, so I doubt I’ll have a chance to talk with her.” “That’s too bad,” he said, as if he really meant it. “It is, but I’ve got to get back to work, so what can I do?” I said. “Where are you from?” “Tokyo.” “Tokyo,” he repeated. He narrowed his eyes again and stared out at the ocean, as if he’d be able, if he stared hard enough, to see the lights of Tokyo out beyond the horizon. “Are you going to be here much longer?” I asked. “Hard to say,” he said, tracing the handgrip on his wheelchair with his fingers. “Another month, maybe two. It all depends. My sister’s huband owns stock in this hotel, so we can stay here for next to nothing. My father runs a big tile company in Cleveland, and my brother-in-law’s basically taken it over. I don’t like the guy very much, but I guess you can’t choose your family, can you? I don’t know, maybe he’s not as terrible as I make out. Unhealthy people like me tend to be a little narrow-minded.” He took a handkerchief from his pocket and slowly, delicately, blew his nose, then repocketed the handkerchief. “Anyhow, he owns stock in a lot of companies. A lot of investment property, too. A shrewd guy, just like my father. So we’re all—my family, I mean—divided into two types of people: the healthy ones and the sick ones. The functional and the dysfunctional. The healthy ones are busy making tile, increasing their wealth, and evading taxes—don’t tell anybody I said that, O.K.?—and they take care of the sick ones. It’s a neat division of labor.” He stopped speaking and took a deep breath. He tapped his fingernails against the tabletop for a while. I was silent, waiting for him to go on. “They decide everything for us. Tell us to stay a month here, a month there. We’re like the rain, my mother and I. We rain here, and the next thing you know we’re raining somewhere else.” The waves lapped at the rocks, leaving white foam behind; by the time the foam vanished, new waves had appeared. I watched this process vacantly. The moonlight cast irregular shadows among the rocks. “Of course, since it’s a division of labor,” he went on, “my mother and I have our roles to play, too. It’s a two-way street. It’s hard to describe, but I think we complement their excesses by doing nothing. That’s our raison d’être. Do you know what I mean?” “Yeah, sort of,” I replied. “But I’m not entirely sure I do.” He laughed quietly. “A family’s a strange thing,” he said. “A family has to exist as its own premise, or else the system won’t function. In that sense, my useless legs are a kind of banner that my family rallies around. My dead legs are the pivot around which things revolve.” He was tapping the tabletop again. Not in irritation—merely moving his fingers and quietly contemplating things in his own time zone. “One of the main characteristics of this system is that lack gravitates toward greater lack, excess toward greater excess. When Debussy was getting nowhere with an opera he was composing, he put it this way: ‘I spent my days pursuing the nothingness—rien—it creates.’ My job is to create that void, that rien.” He sank back into an insomniac silence, his mind wandering to some distant region. Perhaps to the void inside him. Eventually, his attention returned to the here and now, the point he came back to a few degrees out of alignment with where he’d departed from. I tried rubbing my own cheek. The scratch of stubble told me that, yes, time was still moving. I took the miniature bottle of whiskey from my pocket and stood it on the table. “Care for a drink? I don’t have a glass, I’m afraid.” He shook his head. “Thanks, but I don’t drink. I’m not sure how I’d react if I did, so I don’t. But I don’t mind other people drinking—be my guest.” I tipped the bottle back and let the whiskey slide slowly down my throat. I closed my eyes, savoring the warmth. He watched this process from across the table. “This might be a strange question,” he said, “but do you know anything about knives?” “Knives?” “Knives. You know, like hunting knives.” I’d used knives when camping, I told him, but I didn’t know much about them. That seemed to disappoint him. But not for long. “Never mind,” he said. “I just happen to have a knife I wanted you to take a look at. I bought it about a month ago from a catalogue. But I don’t know the first thing about knives. I don’t know if it’s any good or if I wasted my money. So I wanted to have somebody else take a look and tell me what they think. If you don’t mind.” “No, I don’t mind,” I told him. Gingerly, he withdrew a five-inch-long, beautifully curved object from his pocket and placed it on the table. “Don’t worry. I’m not planning to hurt anybody with it, or hurt myself. It’s just that one day I felt like I had to own a sharp knife. I can’t remember why. I was just dying to get a knife, that’s all. So I looked through some catalogues and ordered one. Nobody knows that I’m always carrying this knife around with me—not even my mother. You’re the only person who knows.” “And I’m leaving for Tokyo tomorrow.” “That’s right,” he said, and smiled. He picked up the knife and let it rest in his palm for a moment, testing its weight as if it held some great significance. Then he passed it to me across the table. The knife did have a strange heft—it was as if I were holding a living creature with a will of its own. Wood inlay was set into the brass handle, and the metal was cool, even though it had been in his pocket all this time. “Go ahead and open the blade.” I pushed a depression on the upper part of the hilt and flipped out the heavy blade. Fully extended, it was about three inches long. With the blade out, the knife felt even heavier. It wasn’t just the weight that struck me; it was the way the knife fit perfectly in my palm. I tried swinging it around a couple of times, up and down, side to side, and with that perfect balance I never had to grip harder to keep it from slipping. The steel blade, with its sharply etched blood groove, carved out a crisp arc as I slashed with it. “Like I said, I don’t know much about knives,” I told him, “but this is one great knife. It’s got such a great feel to it.” “But isn’t it kind of small for a hunting knife?” “I don’t know,” I said. “I guess it depends on what you use it for.” “True enough,” he said, and nodded a few times as if to convince himself. I folded the blade into the handle and handed it back to him. The young man opened it up again and deftly twirled the knife once in his hand. Then, as if he were sighting down a rifle, he shut one eye and aimed the knife directly at the full moon. Moonlight reflected off the blade and for an instant flashed on the side of his face. “I wonder if you could do me a favor,” he said. “Could you cut something with it?” “Cut something? Like what?” “Anything. Whatever’s around. I just want you to cut something. I’m stuck in this chair, so there isn’t much I can reach. I’d really like it if you’d cut something up for me.” I couldn’t think of any reason to refuse, so I picked up the knife and took a couple of stabs at the trunk of a nearby palm tree. I sliced down diagonally, lopping off the bark. Then I picked up one of those Styrofoam kickboards lying near the pool and sliced it in half lengthwise. The knife was even sharper than I’d imagined. “This knife’s fantastic,” I said. “It’s handcrafted,” the young man said. “And pretty expensive, too.” I aimed the knife at the moon as he’d done, and stared hard at it. In the light, it looked like the stem of some ferocious plant just breaking through the surface of the soil. Something that connected nothingness and excess. “Cut some more things,” he urged. I slashed out at everything I could lay my hands on. At coconuts that had fallen on the ground, the massive leaves of a tropical plant, the menu posted at the entrance to the bar. I even hacked away at pieces of driftwood on the beach. When I ran out of things to cut, I started moving slowly, deliberately, as if I were doing Tai Chi, silently slicing the knife through the night air. Nothing stood in my way. The night was deep, and time was pliable. The light of the full moon only added to that depth, that pliancy. As I stabbed the air, I suddenly thought of the fat woman, the ex-United Airlines stewardess. I could see her pale, bloated flesh hovering in the air around me, formless, like mist. Everything was there inside that mist. The rafts, the sea, the sky, the helicopters, the pilots. I tried slashing them in two, but the perspective was off, and it all stayed just out of reach of the tip of my blade. Was it all an illusion? Or was I the illusion? Maybe it didn’t matter. Come tomorrow, I wouldn’t be here anymore. “Sometimes I have this dream,” the young man in the wheelchair said. His voice had a strange echo to it, as if it were rising up from the bottom of a cavernous hole. “There’s a sharp knife stabbed into the soft part of my head, where the memories are. It’s stuck deep down inside. It doesn’t hurt or weigh me down—it’s just stuck there. And I’m standing off to one side, looking at this like it’s happening to someone else. I want someone to pull the knife out, but no one knows that it’s stuck inside my head. I think about yanking it out myself, but I can’t reach my hands inside my head. It’s the strangest thing. I can stab myself, but I can’t reach the knife to pull it out. And then everything starts to disappear. I start to fade away, too. And only the knife is left. Only the knife is always there—to the very end. Like the bone of some prehistoric animal on the beach. That’s the kind of dream I have,” he said. ♦ (Translated, from the Japanese, by Philip Gabriel.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Tooth and Claw	The weather had absolutely nothing to do with it—though the rain had been falling off and on throughout the day and the way the gutters were dripping made me feel as if despair were the mildest term in the dictionary—because I would have gone down to Daggett’s that afternoon even if the sun were shining and all the fronds of the palm trees were gilded with light. The problem was work. Or, more specifically, the lack of it. The boss had called at 6:30 a.m. to tell me not to come in, because the guy I’d been replacing had recovered sufficiently from his wrenched back to feel up to working, and, no, he wasn’t firing me, because they’d be on to a new job next week and he could use all the hands he could get. “So take a couple days off and enjoy yourself,” he’d rumbled into the phone in his low, hoarse, uneven voice, which always seemed on the verge of morphing into something else altogether—squawks and bleats or maybe just static. “You’re young, right? Go out and get yourself some tail. Get drunk. Go to the library. Help old ladies across the street. You know what I mean?” It had been a long day: breakfast out of a cardboard box while cartoon images flickered and faded and reconstituted themselves on the TV screen, and then some desultory reading, starting with the newspaper and a couple of National Geographics I’d picked up at a yard sale; lunch at the deli, where I had ham-and-cheese in a tortilla wrap and exchanged exactly eleven words with the girl behind the counter (“No. 7, please, no mayo.” “Have a nice day.” “You, too”), and a walk to the beach that left my sneakers sodden. And, after all that, it was still only three o’clock in the afternoon and I had to force myself to stay away from the bar till five, five at least. I wasn’t stupid. And I had no intention of becoming a drunk like all the hard-assed old men in the shopping-mall-blighted town I grew up in, silent men with hate in their eyes and complaint eating away at their insides—like my own dead father, for that matter—but I was new here, or relatively new (nine weeks now and counting), and Daggett’s was the only place I felt comfortable. And why? Precisely because it was filled with old men drinking themselves into oblivion. It made me think of home. Or feel at home, anyway. The irony wasn’t lost on me. The whole reason I’d moved out to the Coast to live, first with my Aunt Kim and her husband, Waverley, and then in my own one-bedroom apartment with kitchenette and a three-by-six-foot balcony with a partially obscured view of the Pacific, half a mile off, was so that I could inject a little excitement into my life and mingle with all the college students in the bars that lined State Street cheek to jowl, but here I was hanging out in an old-man’s bar that smelled of death and vomit and felt as closed in as a submarine, when just outside the door were all the exotic, sunstruck glories of California. Where it never rained. Except in winter. And it was winter now. I nodded self-consciously at the six or seven regulars lined up at the bar, then ordered a Jack-and-Coke, the only drink besides beer that I liked the taste of, and I didn’t really like the taste of beer. There were sports on the three TVs hanging from the ceiling—this was a sports bar—but the volume was down and the speakers were blaring the same tired hits of the sixties that I could have heard back home. Ad nauseam. When the bartender—he was young, at least, as were the waitresses—set down my drink, I made a comment about the weather, “Nice day for sunbathing, isn’t it?,” and the two regulars nearest me glanced up with something like interest in their eyes. “Or maybe bird-watching,” I added, feeling encouraged, and they swung their heads back to the familiar triangulation of their splayed elbows and cocktail glasses and that was the end of that. It must have been seven or so, the rain still coming down and people briefly enlivened by the novelty of it as they came and went in spasms of umbrella furling and unfurling, when a guy about my age—or, no, he must have been thirty, or close to it—came in and took the seat beside me. He was wearing a baseball cap, a jean jacket, and a T-shirt that said “Obligatory Death,” which I took to be the name of a band, though I’d never heard of them. His hair was blond, cut short around the ears, and he had a soul beard that was like a pale stripe painted under his lip by an unsteady hand. We exchanged the standard greeting—What’s up?—and then he flagged down the bartender and ordered a draft beer, a shot of tomato juice, and two raw eggs. “Raw eggs?” the bartender echoed, as if he hadn’t heard right. “Yeah. Two raw eggs, in the shell.” The bartender—his name was Chris, or maybe it was Matt—gave a smile and scratched the back of his head. “We can do them over easy or sunny-side up or poached even, but raw, I don’t know. I mean, nobody’s ever requested raw before—” “Ask the chef, why don’t you?” The bartender shrugged. “Sure,” he said, “no problem.” He started off in the direction of the kitchen, then pulled up short. “You want toast with that, home fries, or what?” “Just the eggs.” Everybody was watching now, any little drama worth the price of admission, especially on a night like this, but the bartender—Chris, his name was definitely Chris—just went down to the other end of the bar and communicated the order to the waitress, who made a notation in her pad and disappeared into the kitchen. A moment went by, and then the man turned to me and said in a voice loud enough for everybody to hear, “Jesus, this music sucks. Are we caught in a time warp here, or what?” The old men—the regulars—glanced up from their drinks and gave him a look, but they were gray-haired and slack in the belly and they knew their limits. “Yeah,” I heard myself say, “it really sucks,” and before I knew it I was talking passionately about the bands that meant the most to me even as the new guy poured tomato juice in his beer and sipped the foam off the top, while the music rumbled defiantly on and people with wet shoes and dripping umbrellas crowded in behind us. The eggs, brownshelled and naked in the middle of a standard dinner plate, were delivered by Daria, a waitress I’d had my eye on, though I hadn’t yet worked up the nerve to say more than hello and goodbye to her. “Your order, sir,” she said, easing the plate down on the bar. “You need anything with that? Ketchup? Tabasco?” “No,” he said, “that’s fine,” and everyone was waiting for him to crack the eggs over his beer, but he didn’t even look at them. He was looking at Daria, holding her with his eyes. “So, what’s your name?” he asked, grinning. She told him, and she was grinning, too. “Nice to meet you,” he said, taking her hand. “I’m Ludwig.” “Ludwig,” she repeated, pronouncing it with a “V,” as he had, though as far as I could tell—from his clothes and accent, which was pure Southern California—he wasn’t German. Or if he was he sure had his English down. “Are you German?” Daria was flirting with him, and the realization of it began to harden me against him in the most rudimentary way. “No,” he said. “I’m from Hermosa Beach, born and raised. It’s the name, right?” “I had this German teacher last year? His name was Ludwig, that’s all.” “You’re in college?” She told him she was, which was news to me. Working her way through. Majoring in business. She wanted to own her own restaurant someday. “It was my mother’s idea,” he said, as if he’d been mulling it over. “She was listening to the ‘Eroica’ Symphony the night I was born.” He shrugged. “It’s been my curse ever since.” “I don’t know,” she said. “I think it’s kind of cute. You don’t get many Ludwigs, you know?” “Yeah, tell me about it,” he said, sipping his beer. She lingered, though there were other things she could have been doing. “So, what about the eggs?” she said. “You going to need utensils, or—” “Or what? Am I going to suck them out of the shell?” “Yeah,” she said, “something like that.” He reached out a hand cluttered with silver to embrace the eggs and gently roll them back and forth across the gleaming expanse of the plate. “No, I’m just going to fondle them,” he said, and got the expected response: she laughed. “But does anybody still play dice around here?” he called down the bar as the eyes of the regulars slid in our direction and then away again. In those days—and this was ten years ago or more—the game of Horse was popular in certain California bars, as were smoking, unprotected sex, and various other adult pleasures that may or may not have been hazardous to your health. There were five dice, shaken in a cup, and you slammed that cup down on the bar, trying for the highest cumulative score, which was thirty. Anything could be bet on, from the next round of drinks to ponying up for the jukebox. The rain hissed at the door and it opened briefly to admit a stamping, umbrellaless couple. Ludwig’s question hung unanswered on the air. “No? How about you, Daria?” “I can’t—I’m working.” He turned to me. I had no work in the morning or the next morning, either—maybe no work at all. My apartment wasn’t what I’d thought it would be, not without somebody to share it with, and I’d already vowed to myself that I’d rather sleep on the streets than go back to my aunt’s, because going back there would represent the worst kind of defeat. Take good care of my baby, Kim, my mother had said when she dropped me off. He’s the only one I’ve got. “Sure,” I said. “I guess. What’re we playing for—for drinks, right?” I began fumbling in my pockets, awkward—I was drunk, I could feel it. “Because I don’t have, well, maybe ten bucks—” “No,” he said, “no,” already rising from his seat, “you just wait here, just one minute, you’ll see,” and then he was out the door and into the grip of the rain. Daria hadn’t moved. She was dressed in the standard outfit for Daggett’s employees—shorts, white ankle socks, and a T-shirt with the name of the establishment blazoned across the chest, her legs pale and silken in the flickering light of the fake fireplace in the corner. She gave me a sympathetic look, and I shrugged to show her that I was ready for anything, a real man of the world. There was a noise at the door—a scraping and shifting—and we all looked up to see Ludwig struggling with something there against the backdrop of the rain. His hat had been knocked askew and water dripped from his nose and chin. It took a moment, one shoulder pinning the door open, and then he lifted a cage—a substantial cage, two and a half feet high and maybe four feet long—through the doorway and set it down against the wall. No one moved. No one said a word. There was something in the cage, the apprehension of it as sharp and sudden as the smell it brought with it, something wild and alien and very definitely out of the ordinary on what to this point had been a painfully ordinary night. Ludwig wiped the moisture from his face with a swipe of his sleeve, straightened out his hat, and came back to the bar, looking jaunty and refreshed. “All right,” he said, “don’t be shy—go have a look. It won’t bite. Or it will, it definitely will, just don’t get your fingers near it, that’s all.” I saw coiled limbs, claws, yellow eyes. Whatever it was, the thing hadn’t moved, not even to blink. I was going to ask what it was when Daria, still at my side, said, “It’s a cat, some kind of wildcat, right? A what—a lynx or something?” “You can’t have that thing in here,” one of the regulars said, but already he was getting up out of his seat to have a look at it—everyone was getting up now, shoving back chairs and rising from the tables, crowding around. “It’s a serval,” Ludwig was saying. “From Africa. Thirty-five pounds of muscle and quicker than a snake.” And where had he got it? He’d won it, in a bar in Arizona, on a roll of the dice. How long had he had it? Two years. What was its name? Cat. Just Cat. And, yes, it was a male, and, no, he didn’t want to get rid of it but he was moving overseas on a new job and there was just no way he could take it with him, so he felt that it was apropos—that was the word he used, “apropos”—to give it up in the way he’d got it. He turned to me. “What was your name again?” “Junior,” I said. “James, Jr., Turner, I mean. James Turner, Jr. But everybody calls me Junior.” I wanted to add, “Because of my father, so people wouldn’t confuse us,” but I left it at that, because it got even more complicated considering that my father was six months dead and I could be anybody I wanted. “O.K., Junior, here’s the deal,” Ludwig said. “Your ten bucks against the cat, one roll. What do you say?” I wanted to say that I had no place for the thing, that I didn’t want a cat of any kind or even a guinea pig or a fish in a bowl and that the ten dollars was meaningless, but everyone was watching me and I couldn’t back out without feeling the shame rise to my face—and there was Daria to consider, because she was watching me, too. “Yeah,” I said. “Yeah, O.K., sure.” Sixty seconds later, I was still solvent and richer by one cat and one cage. I’d got lucky—or unlucky, depending on how you want to look at it—and rolled three fives and two fours; Ludwig rolled a combined eleven. He finished his beer in a gulp, took my hand to seal the deal, and then started toward the door. “But what do I feed it?” I called. “I mean, what does it eat?” “Eggs,” he said. “It loves eggs. And meat. Raw. No kibble, forget kibble. This is the real deal, this animal, and you need to treat it right.” He was at the door, looking down at the thing with what might have been wistfulness or satisfaction, I couldn’t tell which, then he reached down behind the cage to unfasten something there—a gleam of black leather—and toss it to me: it was a glove, or a gauntlet, actually, as long as my arm. “You’ll want to wear this when you feed him,” he said, and then he was gone. For a long moment, I stared at the door, trying to work out what had happened, and then I looked at the regulars—at the expressions on their faces—and at the other customers, locals or maybe even tourists, who’d come in for a beer or a burger or the catch of the day and had all this strangeness thrust on them, and finally at the cage. Daria was bent beside it, cooing to the animal inside, Ludwig’s eggs cradled in one hand. She was short and compact, conventionally pretty, with the round eyes and symmetrical features of an anime heroine, her running shoes no bigger than a child’s, her blond hair pulled back in a ponytail, and I’d noticed all that before, over the course of weeks of study, but now it came to me with the force of revelation. She was beautiful, a beautiful girl propped on one knee, while her shorts rode up in back and her T-shirt bunched beneath her breasts, offering this cat—my cat—the smallest comfort, as if it were a kitten she’d found abandoned on the street. “Jesus, what are you going to do with the thing?” Chris had come out from behind the bar and he was standing beside me now, looking awed. I told him that I didn’t know. That I hadn’t planned on owning a wildcat, hadn’t even known they existed—servals, that is—until five minutes ago. “You live around here?” “Bayview Apartments.” “They accept pets?” I’d never really given it much thought, but they did, they must have—the guy next door to me had a pair of yapping little dogs with bows in their hair, and the woman down the hall had a Doberman that was forever scrabbling its nails on the linoleum when she came in and out with it, which she seemed to do about a hundred times a day. But this was something different. This was something that might push at the parameters of the standard lease. “Yeah,” I said, “I think so.” There was a single slot where the door of the cage fastened that was big enough to receive an egg without crushing its shell, and Daria, still cooing, rolled first one egg, then the other, through the aperture. For a moment, nothing happened. Then the cat, hunched against the mesh, shifted position ever so slightly and took the first egg in its mouth—two teeth like hypodermics, a crunch, and then the soft frictive scrape of its tongue. Daria rose and came to me with a look of wonder. “Don’t do a thing till I get off, O.K.?” she said, and in her fervor she took hold of my arm. “I get off at nine, so you wait, O.K.?” “Yeah,” I said. “Sure.” “We can put him in the back of the storage room for now, and then, well, I guess we can use my pickup.” I didn’t have the leisure to reflect on how complex things had become all of a sudden, and even if I had I don’t think I would have behaved any differently. I just nodded at her, stared into her plenary eyes and nodded. “He’s going to be all right,” she said, and added, “He will,” as if I’d been disagreeing with her. “I’ve got to get back to work, but you wait, O.K.? You wait right here.” Chris was watching. The manager was watching. The regulars had all craned their necks and half the dinner customers, too. Daria patted down her apron, smoothed back her hair. “What did you say your name was again?” So I had a cat. And a girl. We put the thing in the back of her red Toyota pickup, threw a tarp over it to keep the rain off, and drove to Vons, where I watched Daria march up and down the aisles seeking out kitty litter and the biggest cat pan they had (we settled for a dishpan, hard blue plastic that looked all but indestructible), and then it was on to the meat counter. “I’ve only got ten bucks,” I said. She gave me a withering look. “This animal’s got to eat,” she informed me, and she reached back to slip the band from her ponytail so that her hair fell glistening across her shoulders, a storm of hair, fluid and loose, the ends trailing down her back like liquid in motion. She tossed her head impatiently. “You do have a credit card, don’t you?” Ten minutes later, I was directing her back to my building, where she parked next to the Mustang I’d inherited when my father died, and then we went up the outside stairs and along the walkway to my apartment, on the second floor. “I’m sorry,” I said, swinging open the door and hitting the light switch, “but I’m afraid I’m not much of a housekeeper.” I was going to add that I hadn’t expected company, either, or I would have straightened up, but Daria just strode right in, cleared a spot on the counter, and set down the groceries. I watched her shoulders as she reached into the depths of one bag after another and extracted the forty-odd dollars’ worth of chicken parts and rib-eye steak (marked down for quick sale) that we’d selected in the meat department. “O.K.,” she said, turning to me as soon as she’d made space in the refrigerator for it all, “now where are we going to put the cat, because I don’t think we should leave it out there in the truck any longer than we have to, do you? Cats don’t like the rain, I know that—I have two of them. Or one’s a kitten, really.” She was on the other side of the kitchen counter, a clutter of crusted dishes and glasses sprouting colonies of mold between us. “You have a bedroom, right?” I did. But if I was embarrassed by the state of the kitchen and living room—this was my first venture at living alone, and the need for order hadn’t really seemed paramount to me—then the thought of the bedroom, with its funk of dirty clothes and unwashed sheets, the reeking workboots and the duffelbag out of which I’d been living, gave me pause. Here was this beautiful apparition in my kitchen, the only person besides my aunt who’d ever stepped through the door of my apartment, and now she was about to discover the sad, lonely disorder at the heart of my life. “Yeah,” I said. “That door there, to the left of the bathroom.” But she was already in the room, pushing things aside, a frown of concentration pressed between her eyes. “You’re going to have to clear this out,” she said. “The bed, everything. All your clothes.” I was standing in the doorway, watching her. “What do you mean, ‘clear it out’?” She lifted her face. “You don’t think that animal can stay caged up like that, do you? There’s hardly room for it to turn around. And that’s just cruel.” She drilled me with that look again, then put her hands on her hips. “I’ll help you,” she said. “It shouldn’t take ten minutes.” Then it was up the stairs with the cat, the two of us fighting the awkwardness of the cage. We kept the tarp knotted tightly in place, both to keep the rain off the cat and to disguise it from any of my neighbors who might happen by, and, though we shifted the angle of the thing coming up the stairs, the animal didn’t make a sound. We had a little trouble getting the cage through the doorway—the cat seemed to concentrate its weight as if in silent protest—but we managed, and then we maneuvered it into the bedroom and set it down in the middle of the rug. Daria had already arranged the litter box in the corner, atop several sheets of newspaper, and she’d taken my biggest stewpot, filled it with water, and placed it just inside the door, where I could get to it easily. “O.K.,” she said, glancing up at me with a satisfied look, “it’s time for the unveiling,” and she bent to unfasten the tarp. The overhead light glared, the tarp slid from the cage and puddled on the floor, and there was the cat, pressed to the mesh in a compression of limbs, its yellow eyes seizing on us. “Nice kitty,” Daria cooed. “Does he want out of that awful cage? Hmm? Does he? And meat—does he want meat?” So far, I’d gone along with everything in a kind of daze, but this was problematic. Who knew what the thing would do, what its habits were, its needs? “How are we going to—” I began, and left the rest unspoken. The light stung my eyes, and the alcohol whispered in my blood. “You remember what that guy said about feeding him, right?” In the back of my head, there was the smallest glimmer of a further complication: once he was out of the cage, how would we—how would I—ever get him back into it? For the first time, Daria looked doubtful. “We’ll have to be quick,” she said. And so we were. Daria stood at the bedroom door, ready to slam it shut, while I leaned forward, my heart pounding, and slipped the bolt on the cage. I was nimble in those days—twenty-three years old and with excellent reflexes despite the four or five Jack-and-Cokes I’d downed in the course of the evening—and I sprang for the door the instant the bolt was released. Exhilaration burned in me. It burned in the cat, too, because at the first click of the bolt it came to life as if it had been hot-wired. A screech tore through the room, the cage flew open, and the thing was an airborne blur slamming against the cheap plywood panel of the bedroom door, even as Daria and I fought to force it shut. In the morning (she’d slept on the couch, curled up in the fetal position, faintly snoring; I was stretched out on the mattress we’d removed from the bedroom and tucked against the wall under the TV), I was faced with a number of problems. I’d awakened before her, jolted out of a dreamless sleep by a flash of awareness, and for a long while I just lay there watching her. I could have gone on watching her all morning, thrilled by her presence, her hair, the repose of her face, if it weren’t for the cat. It hadn’t made a sound, and it didn’t stink, not yet, but its existence was communicated to me nonetheless—it was there, and I could feel it. I would have to feed it, and after the previous night’s episode, that was going to require some thought and preparation, and I would have to offer Daria something, too, if only to hold her here a little longer. Eggs, I could scramble some eggs, but there was no bread for toast, no milk, no sugar for the coffee. And she would want to freshen up in the bathroom—women always freshened up in the morning, I was pretty sure of that. I thought of the neatly folded little matching towels in the guest bathroom at my aunt’s and contrasted that image with the corrugated rag wadded up on the floor somewhere in my own bathroom. Maybe I should go out for bagels or muffins or something, I thought—and a new towel. But did they sell towels at 7-Eleven? I didn’t have a clue. We’d stayed up late, sharing the last of the hot cocoa out of the foil packet and talking in a specific way about the cat that had brought us to that moment on the greasy couch in my semi-darkened living room and then more generally about our own lives and thoughts and hopes and ambitions. I’d heard about her mother, her two sisters, the courses she was taking at the university. Heard about Daggett’s, the regulars, the tips—or lack of them. And her restaurant fantasy. It was amazingly detailed, right down to the number of tables she was planning on, the dinnerware, the cutlery, and the paintings on the walls, as well as the décor and the clientele—“Late twenties, early thirties, career people, no kids”—and a dozen or more of the dishes she would specialize in. My ambitions were more modest. I’d told her how I’d finished community college without any particular aim or interest, and how I was working setting tile for a friend of my aunt and uncle; beyond that, I was hoping to maybe travel up the coast and see Oregon. I’d heard a lot about Oregon, I told her. Very clean. Very natural up there. Had she ever been to Oregon? No, but she’d like to go. I remembered telling her that she ought to open her restaurant up there, someplace by the water, where people could look out and take in the view. “Yeah,” she’d said, “that’d be cool,” and then she’d yawned and dropped her head to the pillow. I was just getting up to see what I could do about the towel in the bathroom, thinking vaguely of splashing some aftershave on it to fight down any offensive odors it might have picked up, when her eyes flashed open. She didn’t say my name or wonder where she was or ask for breakfast or where the bathroom was. She just said, “We have to feed that cat.” “Don’t you want coffee or anything—breakfast? I can make breakfast.” She threw back the blanket and I saw that her legs were bare. She was wearing the Daggett’s T-shirt over a pair of shiny black panties; her running shoes, socks, and shorts were balled up on the rug beneath her. “Sure,” she said. “Coffee sounds nice.” And she pushed her fingers through her hair on both sides of her head and then let it all fall forward to obscure her face. She sat there a moment before leaning forward to dig a hair clip out of her purse, arch her back, and pull the hair tight in a ponytail. “But I am worried about the cat, in new surroundings and all. The poor thing—we should have fed him last night.” Perhaps so. And I certainly didn’t want to contradict her—I wanted to be amicable and charming, wanted to ingratiate myself in any way I could—but we’d both been so terrified of the animal’s power in that moment when we’d released it from the cage that neither of us had felt up to the challenge of attempting to feed it. Attempting to feed it would have meant opening that door again, and that was going to take some thought and commitment. “Yeah,” I said. “We should have. And we will, we will, but coffee, coffee first—you want a cup? I can make you a cup?” So we drank coffee and ate the strawberry Pop-Tarts I found in the cupboard above the sink and made small talk as if we’d awakened together a hundred mornings running, and it was so tranquil and so domestic and so right I never wanted it to end. We were talking about work and about what time she had to be in that afternoon, when her brow furrowed and her eyes sharpened and she said, “I wish I could see it. When we feed it, I mean. Couldn’t you, like, cut a peephole in the door or something?” I was glad for the distraction, damage deposit notwithstanding. And the idea appealed to me: now we could see what the thing—my pet—was up to, and if we could see it then it wouldn’t seem so unapproachable and mysterious. I’d have to get to know it eventually, have to name it and tame it, maybe even walk it on a leash. I had a brief vision of myself sauntering down the sidewalk, this id with claws at my side, turning heads and cowing the weight lifters with their Dobermans and Rottweilers, and then I fished my power drill out from under the sink and cut a neat hole, half an inch in diameter, in the bedroom door. As soon as it was finished, Daria put her eye to it. “Well?” “The poor thing. He’s pacing back and forth like an animal in a zoo.” She moved to the side and took my arm as I pressed my eye to the hole. The cat flowed like molten ore from one corner of the room to the other, its yellow eyes fixed on the door, the dun, faintly spotted skin stretched like spandex over its seething muscles. I saw that the kitty litter had been upended and the hard blue plastic pan reduced to chewed-over pellets, and wondered about that, about where the thing would do its business if not in the pan. “It turned over the kitty pan,” I said. She was still holding my arm. “I know.” “It chewed it to shreds.” “Metal. We’ll have to get a metal one, like a trough or something.” I took my eye from the peephole and turned to her. “But how am I going to change it—don’t you have to change it?” Her eyes were shining. “Oh, it’ll settle down. It’s just a big kitty, that’s all”— and then for the cat, in a syrupy coo—“Isn’t that right, kittums?” Next, she went to the refrigerator and extracted one of the steaks, a good pound and a half of meat. “Put on the glove,” she said, “and I’ll hold on to the doorknob while you feed him.” “What about the blood—won’t the blood get on the carpet?” The gauntlet smelled of saddle soap and it was gouged and pitted down the length of it; it fit me as if it had been custom-made. “I’ll press the blood out with a paper towel—here, look,” she said, dabbing at the meat in the bottom of the sink and then lifting it on the end of a fork. I took the fork from her and together we went to the bedroom door. I don’t know if the cat smelled the blood or if it heard us at the door, but the instant I turned the knob it was there. I counted three, then jerked the door back just enough to get my arm and the dangle of meat into the room even as the cat exploded against the doorframe and the meat vanished. We pushed the door to—Daria’s face was flushed and she seemed to be giggling or gasping for air—and then we took turns watching the thing drag the steak back and forth across the rug as if it still needed killing. By the time the cat was done, there was blood everywhere, even on the ceiling. After Daria left for work, I didn’t know what to do with myself. The cat was ominously silent and when I pressed my eye to the peephole I saw that it had dragged its cage into the far corner and was slumped behind it, apparently asleep. I flicked on the TV and sat through the usual idiocy, which was briefly enlivened by a nature show on the Serengeti that gave a cursory glimpse of a cat like mine—“The serval lives in rocky kopjes, where it keeps a wary eye on its enemies, the lion and the hyena, feeding principally on small prey, rabbits, birds, even snakes and lizards,” the narrator informed me in a hushed voice—and then I went to the sandwich shop and ordered the No. 7 special, no mayo, and took it down to the beach. It was a clear day, all the haze and particulate matter washed out of the air by the previous day’s deluge, and I sat there with the sun on my face and watched the waves ride in on top of one another while I ate and considered the altered condition of my life. Daria’s face had got serious as she stood at the door, her T-shirt rumpled, her hair pulled back so tightly from her scalp I could make out each individual strand. “Take care of our cat now, O.K.?” she said. “I’ll be back as soon as I get off.” I shrugged in a helpless, submissive way, the pain of her leaving as acute as anything I’d ever felt. “Sure,” I said, and then she reached for my shoulders and pulled me to her for a kiss—on the lips. “You’re sweet,” she said. So I was sweet. No one had ever called me sweet before, not since childhood, anyway, and I have to admit the designation thrilled me, bloomed inside me like the promise of things to come. I began to see her as a prime mover in my life, her naked legs stretched out on the couch, the hair falling across her shoulders at the kitchen table, her lips locked on mine. But as I sat there eating my ham-and-cheese wrap a conflicting thought came to me: there had to be someone in her life already, a girl that beautiful, working in a bar, and I was deluding myself to think I had a chance with her. She had to have a boyfriend—she could even be engaged, for all I knew. I tried to focus on the previous night, on her hands and fingers—had she been wearing a ring? And, if she had, then where was the fiancé, the boyfriend, whoever he was? I hated him already, and I didn’t even know if he existed. The upshot of all this was that I found myself in the cool subterranean glow of Daggett’s at three-thirty in the afternoon, nursing a Jack-and-Coke like one of the regulars while Daria, the ring finger of her left hand as unencumbered as mine, cleared up after the lunch crowd and set the tables for the dinner rush. Chris came on at five, and he called me by my name and refreshed my drink before he even glanced at the regulars, and for the next hour or so, during the lulls, we conversed about any number of things, beginning with the most obvious—the cat—but veering into sports, music, books, and films, and I found myself expanding into a new place altogether. At one point, Daria stopped by to ask if the cat was settling in—Was he still pacing around neurotically or what?—and I could tell her with some assurance that he was asleep. “He’s probably nocturnal,” I said, “or something like that.” And then, with Chris looking on, I couldn’t help adding, “You’re still coming over, right? After work? To help me feed him, I mean.” She looked to Chris, then let her gaze wander out over the room. “Oh, yeah,” she said, “yeah,” and there was a catch of hesitation in her voice. “I’ll be there.” I let that hang a moment, but I was insecure and the alcohol was having its effect and I couldn’t leave it alone. “We can drive over together,” I said, “because I didn’t bring my car.” She was looking tired by the end of her shift, the bounce gone out of her step, her hair a shade duller under the drab lights, and even as I switched to coffee I noticed Chris slipping her a shot of something down at the end of the bar. I’d had a sandwich around six, and then, so as not to seem overanxious, I’d taken a walk, which brought me into another bar down the street, where I had a Jack-and-Coke and didn’t say a word to anyone, and then I’d returned at eight to drink coffee and hold her to her promise. We didn’t say much on the way over to my place. It was only a five-minute drive, and there was a song on that we both liked. Plus, it seemed to me that when you were comfortable with someone you could respect the silences. I’d gone to the cash machine earlier and in a hopeful mood stocked up on breakfast things—eggs, English muffins, a quart each of no-fat and two-per-cent milk, an expensive Chinese tea that came in individual foil packets—and I’d picked up two bottles of a local Chardonnay that was supposed to be really superior, or at least that was what the guy in the liquor department had told me, as well as a bag of corn chips and a jar of salsa. There were two new bathroom towels hanging on the rack beside the medicine cabinet, and I’d given the whole place a good vacuuming and left the dishes to soak in a sink of scalding water and the last few molecules of dish soap left in the plastic container I’d brought with me from my aunt’s. The final touch was a pair of clean sheets and a light blanket folded suggestively over the arm of the couch. Daria didn’t seem to notice—she went straight to the bedroom door and affixed her eye to the peephole. “I can’t see anything,” she said, leaning into the door, the muscles of her calves flexing as she went up on her toes. “It’s too bad we didn’t think of a night-light or something.” I was watching her out of the corner of my eye—admiring her, amazed all over again at her presence—while working the corkscrew in the bottle. I asked her if she’d like a glass of wine. “Chardonnay,” I said. “It’s a local one, really superior.” “I’d love a glass,” she said, turning away from the door and crossing the room to me. I didn’t have wineglasses, so we made do with the milky-looking water glasses my aunt had dug out of a box in her basement. “I wonder if you could maybe slip your arm in the door and turn on the light in there,” she said. “I’m worried about him. And, plus, we’ve got to feed him again, right?” “Sure,” I said, “yeah, no problem,” but I was in no hurry. I refilled our glasses and broke out the chips and salsa, which she seemed happy enough to see. For a long while, we stood at the kitchen counter, dipping chips and savoring the wine, and then she went to the refrigerator, extracted a slab of meat, and began patting it down with paper towels. I took her cue, donned the gauntlet, braced myself, and jerked the bedroom door open just enough to get my hand in and flick on the light. The cat, which of course had sterling night vision, nearly tore the glove from my arm, and yet the suddenness of the light seemed to confuse it just long enough for me to salvage the situation. The door slammed on a puzzled yowl. Daria immediately put her eye to the peephole. “Oh my God,” she murmured. “What’s he doing?” “Pacing. But here, you have a look.” The carpeting—every last strip of it—had been torn out of the floor, leaving an expanse of dirty plywood studded with nails, and there seemed to be a hole in the plasterboard just to the left of the window. A substantial hole. Even through the closed door I could smell the reek of cat piss or spray or whatever it was. “There goes my deposit,” I said. She was right there beside me, her hand on my shoulder. “He’ll settle down,” she assured me, “once he gets used to the place. All cats are like that—they have to establish their territory is all.” “You don’t think he can get inside the walls, do you?” “No,” she said, “no way. He’s too big.” The only thing I could think to do, especially after an entire day of drinking, was to pour more wine, which I did. Then we repeated the ritual of the morning’s feeding—the steak on the fork, the blur of the cat, the savage thump at the door—and took turns watching it eat. After a while, bored with the spectacle—or perhaps “sated” is a better word—we found ourselves on the couch and there was a movie on TV and we finished the wine and the chips and we never stopped talking, a comment on this movie leading to a discussion of movies in general, a reflection on the wine dredging up our mutual experiences of wine tastings and the horrors of Cribari red and Boone’s Farm and all the rest. It was midnight before we knew it and she was yawning and stretching. “I’ve really got to get home,” she said, but she didn’t move. “I’m wiped. Just wiped.” “You’re welcome to stay over,” I said, “I mean, if you don’t want to drive, after the wine and all—” A moment drifted by, neither of us speaking, and then she made a sort of humming noise—“Mmm”—and held out her arms to me even as she sank down into the couch. I was up before her in the morning, careful not to wake her as I eased myself from the mattress where we’d wound up sleeping because the couch was too narrow for the two of us. My head ached—I wasn’t used to so much alcohol—and the effigy of the cat lurked somewhere behind that ache, but I felt buoyant and optimistic. Daria was asleep on the mattress, the cat was hunkered down in his room, and all was right with the world. I brewed coffee, toasted muffins, and fried eggs, and when she woke I was there to feed her. “What do you say to breakfast in bed?” I murmured, easing down beside her with a plate of eggs over easy and a mug of coffee. I was so intent on watching her eat that I barely touched my own food. After a while, I got up and turned on the radio and there was that song again, the one we’d heard coming home the night before, and we both listened to it all the way through without saying a word. When the d.j. came on with his gasping juvenile voice and lame jokes, she got up and went to the bathroom, passing right by the bedroom door without a thought for the cat. She was in the bathroom a long while, running water, flushing, showering, and I felt lost without her. I wanted to tell her that I loved her, wanted to extend a whole list of invitations to her: she could move in with me, stay here indefinitely, bring her cats with her, no problem, and we could both look after the big cat together, see to its needs, tame it, and make it happy in its new home—no more cages, and meat, plenty of meat. I was scrubbing the frying pan when she emerged, her hair wrapped in one of the new towels. She was wearing makeup and she was dressed in her Daggett’s outfit. “Hey,” I said. She didn’t answer. She was bent over the couch now, stuffing things into her purse. “You look terrific,” I said. There was a sound from the bedroom then, a low moan that might have been the expiring gasp of the cat’s prey, and I wondered if it had found something in there, a rat, a stray bird attracted to the window, an escaped hamster or lizard. “Listen, Junior,” she said, ignoring the moaning, which grew higher and more attenuated now, “you’re a nice guy, you really are.” I was behind the Formica counter. My hands were in the dishwater. Something pounded in my head, and I knew what was coming, heard it in her voice, saw it in the way she ducked her head and averted her eyes. “I can’t—I have to tell you something, O.K.? Because you’re sweet, you are, and I want to be honest with you.” She raised her face to me all of a sudden, let her eyes stab at mine and then dodge away again. “I have a boyfriend. He’s away at school. And I don’t know why . . . I mean, I just don’t want to give you the wrong impression. It was nice. It was.” The moaning cut off abruptly on a rising note. I didn’t know what to say—I was new at this, new and useless. Suddenly I was desperate, looking for anything, any stratagem, the magic words that would make it all right again. “The cat,” I said. “What about the cat?” Her voice was soft. “He’ll be all right. Just feed him. Be nice to him.” She was at the door, the purse slung over one shoulder. “Patience,” she said, “that’s all it takes. A little patience.” “Wait,” I said. “Wait.” “I’ve got to go.” “Will I see you later?” “No,” she said. “No, I don’t think so.” As soon as her pickup pulled out of the lot, I called my boss. He answered on the first ring, raising his voice to be heard over the ambient noise. I could hear the tile saw going in the background, the irregular banging of a hammer, the radio tuned to some jittery right-wing propagandist. “I want to come in,” I said. “Who is this?” “Junior.” “Monday, Monday at the earliest.” I told him I was going crazy cooped up in my apartment, but he didn’t seem to hear me. “What is it?” he said. “Money? Because I’ll advance you on next week if you really need it, though it’ll mean a trip to the bank I wasn’t planning on. Which is a pain in the ass. But I’ll do it. Just say the word.” “No, it’s not the money, it’s just—” He cut me off. “Don’t you ever listen to anything I say? Didn’t I tell you to go out and get yourself laid? That’s what you’re supposed to be doing at your age. It’s what I’d be doing.” “Can’t I just, I don’t know, help out?” “Monday,” he said. I was angry suddenly and I slammed the phone down. My eyes went to the hole cut in the bedroom door and then to the breakfast plates, egg yolk congealing there in bright-yellow stripes, the muffin, Daria’s muffin, untouched but for a single neat bite cut out of the round. It was Friday. I hated my life. How could I have been so stupid? There was no sound from the bedroom, and as I laced my sneakers I fought down the urge to go to the peephole and see what the cat had accomplished in the night—I just didn’t want to think about it. Whether it had vanished like a bad dream or chewed through the wall and devoured the neighbor’s yapping little dogs or broken loose and smuggled itself onto a boat back to Africa, it was all the same to me. The only thing I did know was that there was no way I was going to attempt to feed that thing on my own, not without Daria there. It could starve, for all I cared, starve and rot. Eventually, I fished a jean jacket out of a pile of clothes on the floor and went down to the beach. The day was overcast and a cold wind out of the east scoured the sand. I must have walked for hours and then, for lack of anything better to do, I went to a movie, after which I had a sandwich at a new place downtown where college students were rumored to hang out. There were no students there as far as I could see, just old men who looked exactly like the regulars at Daggett’s, except that they had their square-shouldered old wives with them and their squalling unhappy children. By four I’d hit my first bar, and by six I was drunk. I tried to stay away from Daggett’s—Give her a day or two, I told myself. Don’t nag, don’t be a burden—but at quarter of nine I found myself at the bar, ordering a Jack-and-Coke from Chris. Chris gave me a look, and everything had changed since yesterday. “You sure?” he said. I asked him what he meant. “You look like you’ve had enough, buddy.” I craned my neck to look for Daria, but all I saw were the regulars, hunched over their drinks. “Just pour,” I said. The music was there like a persistent annoyance, dead music, ancient, appreciated by no one, not even the regulars. It droned on. Chris set down my drink and I lifted it to my lips. “Where’s Daria?” I asked. “She got off early. Said she was tired. Slow night, you know?” I felt a stab of disappointment, jealousy, hate. “You have a number for her?” Chris gave me a wary look, as if he knew something I didn’t. “You mean she didn’t give you her number?” “No,” I said. “We never—well, she was at my house . . .” “We can’t give out personal information.” “To me? I said she was at my house. Last night. I need to talk to her, and it’s urgent—about the cat. She’s really into the cat, you know?” “Sorry.” I threw it back at him. “You’re sorry? Well, fuck you—I’m sorry, too.” “You know what, buddy—” “Junior, the name’s Junior.” He leaned into the bar, both arms propped before him, and in a very soft voice he said, “I think you’d better leave now.” It had begun to rain again, a soft patter in the leaves that grew steadier and harder as I walked home. Cars went by on the boulevard with the sound of paper tearing, and they dragged whole worlds behind them. The street lights were dim. There was nobody out. When I came up the hill to my apartment, I saw the Mustang standing there under the carport, and though I’d always been averse to drinking and driving—a lesson I’d learned from my father’s hapless example—I got behind the wheel and drove up to the job site with a crystalline clarity that would have scared me in any other state of mind. There was an aluminum ladder there, and I focussed on that—the picture of it lying against the building—until I arrived and hauled it out of the mud and tied it to the roof of the car, without a thought for the paint job or anything else. When I got back, I fumbled in the rain with my overzealous knots until I got the ladder free and then I hauled it around back of the apartment building. I was drunk, yes, but cautious, too—if anyone had seen me, in the dark, propping a ladder against the wall of an apartment building, even my own apartment building, things could have got difficult in a hurry. I couldn’t very well claim to be painting, could I? Not at night. Not in the rain. Luckily, though, no one was around. I made my way up the ladder, and when I got to the level of the bedroom the odor hit me, a rank fecal wind sifting out of the dark slit of the window. The cat. The cat was in there, watching me. I was sure of it. I must have waited in the rain for fifteen minutes or more before I got up the nerve to fling the window open, and then I ducked my head and crouched reflexively against the wall. Nothing happened. After a moment, I made my way down the ladder. I didn’t want to go into the apartment, didn’t want to think about it, didn’t know if a cat that size could climb down the rungs of a ladder or leap twenty feet into the air or unfurl its hidden wings and fly. I stood and watched the dense black hole of the window for a long while and then I went back to the car and sat listening to the radio in the dark until I fell asleep. In the morning—there were no heraldic rays of sunshine, nothing like that, just more rain—I let myself into the apartment and crept across the room as stealthily as if I’d come to burgle it. When I reached the bedroom door, I put my eye to the peephole and saw a mound of carpet propped up against an empty cage—a den, a makeshift den—and only then did I begin to feel something for the cat, for its bewilderment, its fear and distrust of an alien environment: this was no rocky kopje, this was my bedroom on the second floor of a run-down apartment building in a seaside town a whole continent and a fathomless ocean away from its home. Nothing moved inside. Surely it must have gone by now, one great leap and then the bounding limbs, grass beneath its feet, solid earth. It was gone. Sure it was. I steeled myself, pulled open the door, and slipped inside. And then—and I don’t know why—I pulled the door shut behind me. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Have You Seen the Stolen Girl?	Jesse James, while hiding from the law in Nashville in 1875, lived for a time at the address where Mrs. Virgil Wilson’s house now stood. For years, Mrs. Wilson delighted in telling trick-or-treaters about the outlaw, but then one Halloween she noticed that the trick-or-treaters did not seem to know—or care—who Jesse James was. They also wore costumes that she didn’t recognize and that had to be explained to her—mass murderers, dead stock-car racers, characters from movies she’d never heard of, teen-age singers seemingly remarkable only for their sluttiness—and she realized that she had somehow become the crazy old lady whose tedious stories you had to endure in order to get the disappointing candy that such crazy old ladies invariably offered. For how many years, she asked herself, had she been boring children with her tales of Jesse James, and for how many years had they been laughing at her as they walked away? Every Halloween since then, Mrs. Wilson had sat in her kitchen in the dark, listening to the radio at low volume and pretending she wasn’t home. Still, even though several years had gone by since she’d last opened her door on October 31st, Mrs. Wilson found herself wondering whether the stolen girl had ever trick-or-treated at her house. “The stolen girl” was how local television reporters had come to refer to Angela B——, age thirteen, who had vanished while walking from her house, at one end of Mrs. Wilson’s block, to the school-bus stop, at the other. No matter how hard she tried, Mrs. Wilson could not picture the smiling young face she saw on television (and in store windows and stapled to telephone poles and taped to the back windows of pickup trucks and blown up and plastered on the sides of Metro buses) on her own front porch. Whenever, during station breaks, the announcer posed the question “Have you seen the stolen girl?,” Mrs. Wilson blinked at the girl’s school picture, then shook her head, because she honestly couldn’t say. She liked to imagine that she had once opened her door and found Angela (she would not have been stolen then, so her name would still have been Angela) standing there, waiting patiently, dressed as—what?—a mouse, perhaps, or a rabbit, something soft and nonthreatening. She imagined that she had given Angela not just one or two miniature chocolate bars, as was her habit, but the whole bag—because Angela was clearly such a nice girl and she listened so attentively while Mrs. Wilson told her about Jesse James. She even asked questions. Mrs. Wilson tried not to imagine anything after the point where Angela said thank you and turned to walk away, because the thought of the stolen girl stepping off her porch and disappearing into the darkness inevitably brought tears to her eyes. Because the house where Mrs. Wilson lived was equidistant from the stolen girl’s house and the bus stop that the stolen girl hadn’t reached, it seemed to her to have been marked as the place between Point A and Point B where the unknowable existed and the unthinkable occurred. A black hole, the Bermuda Triangle of East Nashville. Four days after the stolen girl disappeared, and three days after Mrs. Wilson told two uniformed police officers what little she could, a Metro detective—a sober black woman whose air of professional detachment made Mrs. Wilson even sadder for the stolen girl than she already was—had sat on Mrs. Wilson’s good sofa and asked her if she was sure she hadn’t seen anything suspicious. Outside, a TV reporter was broadcasting a live report, which Mrs. Wilson and the detective both glanced at from time to time on Mrs. Wilson’s muted television. Later, other police officers had searched the garage and underneath the house for the stolen girl’s body. (One of them had wriggled out of the crawl space beneath the porch clutching a beautiful cut-glass doorknob, which he solemnly presented to Mrs. Wilson.) The candlelight prayer vigil and neighborhood march organized by the stolen girl’s church had stopped in front of her house and sung “Where You Lead Me I Will Follow.” Not knowing what else to do, Mrs. Wilson blinked her porch light on and off in what she hoped was a show of solidarity. For days on end, her view of the street was blocked by the satellite-TV trucks parked at the curb, their tall masts raised, their great dishes pointed heavenward, as if waiting for a word from God. Although months had now passed since the stolen girl vanished, Mrs. Wilson combed through her memories every day, searching for the one small clue that might help to break the case and return the stolen girl to her family. What had she seen that day? Surely she must have seen something. The stolen girl jogging past, her books clutched to her chest, chased by a gang of taunting older boys? A van prowling back and forth, its shadowy driver no doubt a religious zealot of some kind, searching for a girl to steal? But Mrs. Wilson remembered nothing of the sort. Increasingly, what she found swimming to the surface of her mind were memories that she had forced herself to set aside years before. She imagined this process to be not unlike that of a police boat trolling the Cumberland in search of one particular corpse and dragging up another instead. When Mrs. Wilson was fifteen years old and lived in Jackson, Tennessee, she had loved a boy and become pregnant. Her parents had pulled her out of school, and when she began to show they sent her away to a home in Kentucky, where she lived with two Mennonite spinsters, as lumpen and sexless as sacks of horse feed, and a dozen other “girls in trouble.” They were housed in a converted antebellum mansion on top of a hill outside Lexington, but there was nothing in any way grand about the place. Its parquet floors had been covered with gray institutional linoleum, which, although it was spotless, the spinsters forced them to scrub every day. The girls understood that the endless scrubbing was a punishment of sorts, part of the deal that their parents had struck with the operators of the home, something to make the girls “think twice” the next time they considered climbing into the back seat of a car with a boy. When Mrs. Wilson’s baby came, she was not allowed to hold it. She glimpsed the child, a girl, only briefly, as they carried it away, still bloody, its mouth a tiny black O of perfect accusation. Mrs. Wilson watched the news in Nashville and tried to recall the morning that the stolen girl had disappeared, but instead she remembered the violently blue eyes above the mask of the nurse who had leaned over her as she cried for them to bring back her baby. “Now, sweetheart,” the woman said, “you know you can’t take care of a baby.” A week after the baby was born, Mrs. Wilson returned home. Her family pretended that nothing had changed, but, of course, everything had. During her absence, she had become invisible to the boy she loved. She was too embarrassed to go back to school, and her parents didn’t force her. Although she was the daughter of a doctor, and spent those long, empty days working on her tan at the country-club pool, she eventually married a poor boy, Virgil Wilson, who was handsome and kind to her and seemed not to notice that she was damaged goods. When Mrs. Wilson came to know Virgil better, she realized that he had considered her a canny choice, a good deal on his part—used, certainly, high-mileage, even, but over all a much better model than he would have been able to afford new. They moved together to Nashville, where he worked as an electrician. They bought the house at the address that Jesse James had once called home, and they lived there more or less amicably for the forty-eight years it took Virgil Wilson to smoke himself to death. Their only child, a pleasant but wholly unremarkable boy, now lived in Phoenix, where he spoke Spanish like a Mexican and managed a small office for a large company that installed sprinkler systems in the yards of rich people. Mrs. Wilson’s daughter-in-law was a vicious anorexic girl from California; her grandchildren couldn’t understand her Tennessee accent over the phone. These were the facts of Mrs. Wilson’s life, as she now added them up. If she had only been looking out the front window the morning the stolen girl had last walked by, if she had been able to run from the house and scream for the police and save that girl, how different it all might have seemed! Mrs. Wilson still followed the case avidly on TV, though the reports were less and less frequent. She already knew, of course, that on the morning of the disappearance the stolen girl had been wearing blue shorts, a white T-shirt, and pink sneakers. One night at five, however, she learned that the stolen girl had also been wearing underwear decorated with a picture of Tigger, from “Winnie the Pooh,” and one of the only two bras she owned. Her other bra remained neatly folded in her top dresser drawer. She had not packed a bag, nor had she removed from her nightstand the cache of sixty-eight dollars that she had earned babysitting. The next night at ten, Mrs. Wilson watched a beautiful young woman with perfectly unnatural red hair deliver a report that she, Mrs. Wilson, had watched her tape over and over earlier in the day. “For several months in the late eighteen-hundreds,” the woman said now, staring seriously out of Mrs. Wilson’s television set into Mrs. Wilson’s living room, “unbeknownst to his neighbors, the outlaw Jesse James lived with his wife and children in the house you see behind me. Now this quiet street bears an even darker secret: what happened to Angela B——?” At this point, the camera spun slowly toward Mrs. Wilson’s house, where Mrs. Wilson was alarmed to see herself, peering like a ghost from behind her living-room curtains. “If the people on this street know what happened to the East Nashville seventh grader,” the young woman said, off camera, “they’re not talking.” Mrs. Wilson was aghast. The report was, of course, just filler for a slow news night, but that little bitch had never even asked her if she knew anything! And the actual house that Jesse James lived in had burned down years before Mrs. Wilson was even born! She made a note to herself to call the station the next morning and complain. Mrs. Wilson went to bed angry and woke in the middle of the night to find a door that she had never seen before ajar in the wall opposite her bed. She stuck her feet in her scuffs, put on the housecoat that was lying at the foot of the bed, and crossed the room. She pushed the door open with the palm of her hand and almost giggled as it creaked melodramatically. Below her, she saw an old wooden staircase disappearing into a dug-out basement. She didn’t find it odd to discover a basement in a house that she had lived in for more than half a century, and for this reason alone she decided that she had to be dreaming. She stepped tentatively onto the top step, felt it bend slightly under her weight, and groped around for a light switch, which she did not find. The stairs, though, didn’t seem entirely dark, so she took another step down, then a third and a fourth. Soon the staircase opened up entirely on her left (the stairs didn’t have a handrail), and, afraid to look down into the space below, she kept to the right-hand side of the steps, brushing the earthen wall gently with her fingertips as she descended. Studying the wall, she made out spade marks left by the man who had dug the old basement God knows when. The air grew cooler. It smelled moldy, unbreathed, perhaps unfit for breathing, and it began, as Mrs. Wilson travelled slowly downward, to take on a faintly rotten odor. She heard her grandmother’s voice saying, “Copperheads, Julie, you can smell ’em. They smell like rotting Irish potatoes.” And, for the first time, Mrs. Wilson understood that this basement was not a good place, that she would discover nothing here that would make her happy. At the bottom of the steps, she found herself in a long, narrow room with a dirt floor. Dim daylight made its way in through a row of three filthy transom windows, set in the walls, just below the exposed floor joists of the house. At the center of the room crouched a massive black furnace, which Mrs. Wilson instantly recognized as the coal furnace from the home in Kentucky where she’d spent the final months of her pregnancy. Painted in white letters on the firebox door was the word “hyde”—the name of the company that had manufactured the furnace—and she remembered sitting on the floor next to it with a sad, thin girl from Alabama, sharing a single contraband cigarette. She remembered that the girl from Alabama had pointed at the name on the furnace and said, “That right there is what we’re doing.” The girl from Alabama lost her baby in the seventh month, Mrs. Wilson recalled, and she never heard from her again. Mrs. Wilson wondered how in the world the furnace from Kentucky had ended up underneath her house, and how much she would have to pay to have it cut up and hauled out. She cautiously approached the furnace, turned the handle, and tugged open the heavy door. As she leaned over to look inside, she heard a voice from behind the furnace say, “It don’t work anymore. It ain’t hooked up to nothing.” Mrs. Wilson walked around the furnace and saw a man sitting on a box in the corner in the thin light below one of the narrow windows. He had black hair and a full black beard. He seemed to have a dark bruise on his left cheek. His suit was almost rotting off him, but tied carefully around his throat was an old-fashioned string tie. Mrs. Wilson understood, without quite knowing how, that the man had been sitting on that box, below that opaque window, for untold years. At his feet lay a moldering pile of something vaguely organic that Mrs. Wilson was able to recognize as a saddle only by its two rusted stirrups. As she stared at the man her mouth began to open in recognition. The man nodded. But when she pointed at him and said, “You’re—” he raised his hand and cut her off. “Don’t say my name,” he said. “I won’t.” “You have my doorknob.” Mrs. Wilson pointed above her head. “It’s still in the house.” Jesse James nodded, as if this were a satisfactory answer. “What do you know about me?” she asked. He, too, pointed upward. “Everything,” he said. “I can hear you.” She looked up at the exposed joists and above the joists at the thin flooring. A stray nail poked through the boards in a spiky nest of splinters. “See?” he said. Mrs. Wilson nodded and stared at the outlaw. “What are you waiting for?” she asked. Jesse James reared back on his box and laughed, a scratchy, ill-used sound that made her flinch. His teeth were yellow and dry-looking, and Mrs. Wilson imagined his mouth filled with cobwebs. “Why, kingdom come, Mrs. Wilson,” he said. “Judgment Day. I’m waiting for ’em to roll back the stone.” Beside the outlaw, Mrs. Wilson noticed for the first time, there was a perfectly round hole—the entrance to a tunnel—cut into the wall. She felt not exactly a breeze but a slight stirring of air emanating from the hole, and she inhaled again the fetid copperhead smell she’d noticed as she descended the stairs. It was stronger now. She measured the hole silently with her eyes and decided that it’d be big enough to walk through if she crouched. Jesse James saw where she was looking and shook his head. “I can’t let you go in there,” he said. “But I need to go.” “If you go in there, I can’t let you come back out.” “Who’s in there?” she asked. “The stolen girl,” he said. “Which one?” she heard herself ask. Jesse James cocked his head and looked at her quizzically, as if she should already know the answer to the question. “Why, all of ’em,” he said. Mrs. Wilson awoke to find herself clutching her stomach and howling. She climbed out of bed and stormed through the house, doubled over, screaming into a pain that seemed to have no particular locus but flowed from everywhere at once. “No!” she yelled in the kitchen. “No!” she cried in the hallway. In the living room, she collapsed onto her good sofa and wailed, “No! Don’t take her. Bring her back!” She drew her knees up to her chest and sobbed until the pain eased to the point where she noticed that the sobs themselves had become painful. She rolled onto her back and stared upward, trying to catch her breath. She was surprised to find that it was morning, that sunlight, indifferent and beautiful, was filling the room, as if all were right in the world. Mrs. Wilson climbed to her feet and staggered to the front door. She took the key from the nail, unlocked the deadbolt, and pulled the door open. She gasped when she saw two little girls, no more than seven or eight years old, heading along the sidewalk toward the bus stop, their arms linked, their heads close together, giggling and whispering conspiratorially. School had started again. Mrs. Wilson felt a cold shot of adrenaline flutter into her heart. Nobody was watching the girls. Where were their parents? Where were the police? How could everyone have forgotten the stolen girl so soon? Only a few months had passed, after all, since the stolen girl had walked this street for the last time. Fifteen or twenty yards behind the girls, a teen-age boy—overweight, his black, baggy jeans drooping down over the tops of his shoes, some sort of sports jersey hanging almost to his knees—clumped along, looking at the ground, nodding his head to whatever music he was listening to through the headphones he had clamped over his ears. Mrs. Wilson crossed her porch. She stepped down onto the top step and pointed an accusing finger at the boy. “I’m watching you,” she called out. “I know who you are. I know where you live. I’ll recognize you.” The boy nodded along, oblivious. But out of the corner of her eye Mrs. Wilson saw one of the girls look back. The girl whispered something to her friend, who also glanced over her shoulder at Mrs. Wilson. Then the second girl said something to the first and together they began to run, their book bags bouncing against their backs in a way that looked painful. Mrs. Wilson clutched the collar of her housecoat and ran a hand through her hair. “No,” she whispered. “Oh, no.” She took a few hesitant steps down the sidewalk, waving at the girls, as if waving could pull them back, could make them unafraid. “Come back!” she said. “It’s not me! I swear. You don’t have to be afraid of me!” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Love Snares	A man finds happiness so fleetingly, like the petals melting off a prairie rose. Even as you touch the feeling, it dries up, leaving only the dust of the emotion, a powder of hope. That is how it happened with me. No sooner had Margaret and I found happiness together in our old age than our joy was disrupted. Our peace was shattered. Our love was challenged. My life’s enemy, Shesheeb, returned to the reservation and set up his house down the road. Nothing is complete without its shadow. Ever since the guns had sounded across the lake to mark his birth, Shesheeb had been my special foe. My mother said that when I heard those guns crack I cried and went stiff with rage in her arms. Even when we were babies, I believe he lay waiting in his cradleboard, his tikinaagan, to burn me. Or to whip me with a lash made of deerhide strips from his mother’s tanning frame. For he did these things. While we were still small, he stood on the far edge of a slough in late fall, after a light dusting of snow, and called me across the ice with a frantic wave and cry so that I bounded onto the thin crust, skidding with alarm, and went through. He was given to his aunt, Iron Sky, to raise. She was the one who made him take the charcoal, the burnt stick, the ashes, which were a sign for him to fast and find his vision and his spirit helpers. One morning, he darkened his face and went off into the woods to ask for help, but it didn’t come. His aunt forced the charcoal on him again, and then again. Nothing. The last time she sent him out he was nearly dead when he returned. He staggered and dropped flat on the path. It was on that trip that something happened to him that we can’t say, we don’t know, we haven’t a name for and don’t want one. When he came back he stared straight at everyone as if to capture or pierce. Only, if you returned his stare, as I dared to do, his eyes flickered away—flat, nerveless. He needed to get near people. He would not be alone, and glanced around in a constant, anxious way, as though he were being followed. What did he see? Form of the owl, flight soundless, a ruffled heart. Balls of crackling light. A man pacing swiftly with his head twisted backward on his neck. Two rabbits screaming from the same snare. Shesheeb discovered cruelty. He cut the tongue from a slow porcupine and watched it stand in surprise at his feet, bleeding until it toppled. He laughed, and Iron Sky understood that to laugh at the pain of a harmless animal is the sign of a mind twisting in on itself. She sent him from her place, with her thoughts shut carefully on what he had become. He wandered from one house to another, until he came to us. My family took him in for a short time, to our sorrow. I remember the sap was running when he got his name. My father wore two earrings, and as he bent over the boiling sap one fell off into the kettle. He didn’t notice until the boy who was staying with us reached in to grab it. His hand plunged down. He let out a sly and greedy quack. The noise startled us. He made the sound again, looking at his boiled hand, the earring. Quack! And so Shesheeb was named for the black duck, greasy and sly. How he got my sister to marry him, I don’t know. For he grew up to look like a duck, fat and juicy, with a potbelly and a shovel-face and a bowlegged hunch. His laugh was still a sardonic quack, and he used it when he struck his young wife with a burning stick. The blow marked the side of my sister’s lovely face with a knot of flesh that grew darker and darker until it swallowed her. Then came the winter of our last starvation, when she disappeared. I know what happened. The truth is this: Shesheeb went wiindigoo. That he killed and ate my sister was never proved in a white man’s court, so he went free. But the rest of us knew. We were snared in white men’s laws by then. Pitfalls and loopholes. With a flare of ink in the capital city, rights were taken and given away. Attempting to keep what was left of our land was like walking through a landscape of webs. It dwindled until there wasn’t enough to call a hunting territory. We were supposed to learn to farm the zhaaganaash way, using toothed machines and clumsy, big horses to pull them. And yet we’d only just grown used to the idea that we owned land at all—something that could not possibly belong to any human. When the first of us failed at growing or herding or plowing the fields, we were told that we could sign a piece of paper and get money for the land, without anyone taking it. Mortgage, this was called, a piece of banker’s cleverness that sounded good to many. I spoke against this trick, but who listened to Nanapush? People signed the paper, got money, came home night after night full of whiskey and food. Suddenly the foreclosure notices were handed out and the land was barred. It belonged to someone else. And now, just when it appeared that our people would turn into a wandering bunch, Shesheeb was back. Since the first snow, he had settled in a little gray house that used to belong to Iron Sky. Crippled in one foot, he limped and duck-walked through the bush gathering black medicines. And from his front door, from wherever he could, the old dog tried to steal my Margaret. It was Margaret’s habit to take a shortcut across Shesheeb’s land on her way to Mass. More than once, she returned with a report that he’d tried to waylay her with clever talk. “You stay away from him today,” I warned her as she put warm wrappings on her legs and bundled on her heaviest coat. Margaret’s gaze sharpened, and she smiled into her beaded drawstring bag, counting the coins she was so stingy with. She still possessed the mental fever that acted on me like a love charm. She blew hot, then cold, chilled me, scorched my fingers on those rare times that she welcomed my touch. Now her words were as playful as arrows. “Shesheeb?” She made her voice falsely innocent. “He talks sweet to me when I pass by. I like the things he says.” I gripped the knob of my willow stick, thrust it hard at the swirling pattern of Margaret’s floor. “What does the stringy old duck tell you?” “He says I have a round cheek,” she explained with pride. “I have a young walk, my legs look plump, my thighs sweet and tender.” “He’s just hungry,” I said. “Besides, I’ve heard the old prick’s half blind.” Margaret kicked my cane from my hands. “That’s the only stiff thing you own!” she said. She puckered up her lips and left me, her walk swift and firm. Shesheeb was right about her cheek and legs and thighs, and I was wrong not to follow her that day. For as soon as she was gone I worried that he had got an answer from her, a glance from her eye that encouraged him, a pout from those lips which he would probably call juicy, though toward me they were set and stern. Maybe that, or maybe Shesheeb had done some darker work—hidden a love packet in the snow of the path she walked, a clipping of his hair and nails, the coughball of an owl. Stepping over it, perhaps Margaret had felt a hot breath along her neck, a Chinook wind flowing through her arms, her blood, an early spring. I could see it! Her thoughts melted and softened. She raised her basket and sang an old French tune. . . . The time that she was gone to Mass lengthened and its passage seemed too slow. I tried singing. I tried chopping wood. I tried to distract myself by drumming and then by mudding the log sides of our cabin. When she finally returned, with the smell of incense in her clothes, I watched her with testing eyes. I thought that she looked too cheerful—in her cheeks wild roses flushed. Winter Chinook, for sure, I decided in an inner fury. He’d used his love ways, his bad old powers, on her, the black stare from under his eyebrows that was said to draw women to him like chaff to a knife. That night, Margaret turned her back to me as we lay wrapped in our blankets. She knocked my hand off her breast, pressed her lips shut against my kiss. I couldn’t sleep, so I was alert when in her dreams she mumbled something slow and soft that could have been his name. Shesheeb! Hearing that, I sprang up, my throat choked with poison, and went out the door. The night was deep, the wind dry and sharp. I breathed desperate draughts, sucking in the air. At last, a calmer spot cracked open deep in my heart, and I remembered my sister. In the month of the year when the snow is rotten and the deer starve, Shesheeb had come to court my sister. She was as round as a prairie hen, with a surprised mouth, always laughing and curious. Her eyes were soft and wondering. Fifteen summers she had bobbed on the stalk of her family like a sweet blossom, unfolding her petals. Fifteen autumns had taught her to work hard, to put away all she could for the winter. Fifteen springs she had budded with tender inner life. But the year of Shesheeb would teach her more than I know even now, when I have seen the four seasons go around fifty times and more. The mind of my sister was beautifully wound, a fine skein, a perfect spool. Shesheeb took hold of the end of the string and then, slowly, he unravelled her. The next morning, my mind was still crowded with ghosts. But thinking of my sister had strengthened my heart. I would not be beaten, I decided. Not this time. I would save Margaret whether she liked it or not. Margaret. She was my last love, and the most challenging of my life. We were meant to face death together, Margaret and I, for what else is love in old age? On those occasions when our animosity melted and turned golden, I brimmed with such comfort that death lost a portion of its power. I was an elder, the tribal chairman. Supposedly wise. Supposedly resigned to, familiar with, prepared for the end of my life. But the more I knew of death, the more I fought it. Margaret and I were alike that way—tough, slippery, shrewd, unrepentant, though of course she showed a different face to the priest. I wanted Margaret. I wanted to make her eye spark, to make her turn toward me like a plant to the sun, a child to the drum. Trembling with an old man’s desperation, I decided to make a love medicine, the most potent batch I’d ever concocted. But something worked against me. Something or someone. There was a pack of dogs that roamed the reservation, sometimes vicious, sometimes craven, and always starving. Shesheeb’s dog was the skinniest and saddest of them all. As I sat on the bench beside the door, working on my ingredients, the dogs hung around, watching me with careful eyes. I suppose that my grinding up roots, burning off the ends of hairs, and wetting and singeing leaves got their juices flowing, quickened their responses. I turned away from my work, went inside the house to fetch something. When I came back out I saw that Shesheeb’s dog had leaped onto the stump in front of the bench where I’d put the tray of medicine and was licking up the powder. “Awus!” I yelled and chased him off, but he’d been too quick for me. He’d eaten enough love powder for a war party. No matter. I gathered up all my ingredients to make some more. But, as I began again, a fury seized me, heating up the marrow of my bones. Never before had I needed medicine to snag my women. They had come to me! This humiliation was Shesheeb’s fault, as was the anguish of my sister’s death. I’d had enough of him, too much for a lifetime, I decided. Before I faced the shame of putting love powders on my old lady, I would go out hunting duck. I would find Shesheeb and kill him. That day, my walk took me into the trading store to buy a good long length of wire for a snare. I put the wire on credit, which Margaret and I paid up as rarely as possible in the hope that if we did die we would go with a whopping bill. On the way home, I investigated all the paths that I thought Shesheeb might walk, creeping close enough to his place, his den, his lair of shame, to smell the burned grease of his cooking. I didn’t set my snare the first day. I didn’t set it the second day, either. I waited and I thought, crept back to look for tracks and ascertain his habits. I finally settled on a slim trail near his house, a straight bit with a bend just beyond. A natural place to look up and pause, in case a bear might be coming around the corner. And, after looking, to step ahead freely. To brush through a fringe of leaves. In those leaves, the narrowest part, I would set the wire loop. But first I dug a shallow pan into the ground—here Shesheeb’s toes would dance above the earth with a tantalizing desperation, twitch, die. My heart flinches in me now when I think of the strict care I took. How I made sure that the noose would slip easily, shut lethally, squeeze, cut. How I calculated and removed all that his hands might clutch at and made the hole extra wide and deep. It was a good thing I calculated heavy—for his potbelly, his fat head, and his duck feet. Fortunate that the wind dropped a light branch across my trap. For three days, nothing. The sky was bleak and gray. On day four, a wind stirred and blew the clouds off. I sat down on my little bench and let the sun hit me. The warmth baked my bones. I smelled the calm freshness of the rain drying off the leaves. I let myself dream, as I do so often now, of the old days and the old people. I remembered my sister’s gentle laugh, and felt the light touch of her fingers on my hair. Then a sound penetrated my fog of memory, a highpitched and prolonged squeak, like the death yell of a rabbit. As I ran through the woods, or, at least, hobbled as fast as my skinny legs would take me, the pitch grew higher, wilder, shaking me to the core, although I’ve hunted all my life and fought and seen men die in difficult ways. It was not a man, though, whose death rang through the leaves. Rounding the corner, I skidded to a halt in shock, for it was Margaret I had snared. She strained on perfect tiptoe, like a zhaaganaash ballerina, on the flimsy branch that had fallen across the square I’d carved in the path. Her hands were up around her neck attempting to release the tightening wire. Her face was dark red. When she saw me she went silent. For the first time ever, I had her complete attention. Even in my horror, I was somehow gratified. She looked at me with such appeal that I would have done anything, changed places with her if I could. I threw myself down and crept forward, edging closer until I was crouched nearly underneath her. She understood my plan and stepped onto my back. Then I marshalled every bit of my strength and lifted her so that the wire loosened and she was able to pull it over her head. Once she was free, she fell, retching and gasping, beside me in the ditch. Now that I had saved her, now that she was assured of life, I had only a few minutes in which to work on her logic. I could see no harm in assigning blame where it would be to my advantage. Therefore, as I scrambled for my walking stick, I cried out, “Shesheeb! Can’t he stick to bad medicine? Must he also set snares all around his house?” Then I pounded the earth and vowed I would tear into him right away, crack his skull with my willow stick, beat him senseless for trying to snare my wife. “Your wife?” Margaret said, rubbing her neck, tough-minded despite her near-death. “Even now I am holding out for a church wedding, old man, so we’ll get to that wife part later. For now, quiet down. Akiwenzii, I have had a vision.” She dragged me to her, grasped my jacket, spoke face to face in an earnest and serious voice. “Bizindan. Listen to me, Nanapush.” As we walked home together, both weak and giddy with relief, Margaret told me the substance of her revelation. Many times we had to stop, for she spoke with great force, breathing hard. What she’d seen was no less than a spirit gift, a vision that could change her life and mine. I didn’t know whether to be horrified or proud that I had caused it. I knew only that I should for once be quiet. “As the dark closed in around me, as I choked, as I was near death,” Margaret said, “here is what happened, old man. I saw my great-grandmother from the old days. You know the one. They used to call her Medicine Dress. In my vision she was young and strong. She wore her dress, the medicine dress that she was known for. And she told me its secret. That secret had died with her, but she was giving it to me now, she said, in order to save my life. Here is what she told me. Nothing upon that dress was ever touched by a human, much less a chimookomaan. It was sewn for her by the spirits, she said. Then she told me that I must sew my own dress, following the rules that she would set out. She said that once I had made this dress I would have great power. In this dress, I would be able to heal anyone. I’d see things. I’d know things beyond the reach of my mind. After she told me this, blackness closed around my eyes. I could see no longer. I experienced great sorrow, as I believed that I would die before I could create this healing dress. I was pierced by the wish to live, opened my eyes, and then saw you! Old man, you have saved me to outfit this vision, to make myself the medicine dress!” Margaret’s eyes widened and then softened to a deep maple color, and her gaze charmed me close. “Dear old man,” she said softly, clasping my hand in hers as we reached our door. “You saved my life and made it possible for me to sew my vision. Let me show you my thanks.” Margaret slowly and methodically began to gather her materials. As she had said, nothing on the dress could be made by a white man, which was not easy, as chimookomaanag popped up everywhere—stole the land next door and put a farm on it, walked the town streets, even prayed in our missionizing church. She couldn’t use glass beads to decorate her dress. As in the old days, she had to use deer clackers, teeth, quills, and the bones of small birds. This required the painstaking hunting of those animals, which I did with a good will, hoping that my efforts might redeem me from the terrible mistake of the snare. Binewag sat juicy in the comfort of the tree branches. I knew how to catch them with a wire hooked to the top of a long pole. Plucked and roasted, the birds were sweet and tender. I also let it be known that I was collecting these bird bones, and would be glad to clean up the remnants of partridges cooked throughout the reservation. These were good times. These were the sorts of jobs I liked—catching food, visiting around, eating roast partridge. Whenever I returned with a load of quills or bones, Margaret rewarded me in ways I can only dream of now. I wanted nothing but the happiness of falling asleep in her arms, craved only the calm discriminations of old-age manaa. I wanted us to live in love until we faded into the next world, worn smooth by the rubbing of skin on skin. If only Margaret’s son, Nector, hadn’t come home that year, things would perhaps have gone on forever in that pleasant dream. But there he was one afternoon, sitting on a rock beside the door eating bannock. Margaret beamed down on him like the moon. Nector was smart, and all the girls admired his looks. It was my task to keep him from falling prey to vanity—an uncle’s responsibility. “All that manaa you’re having is making you thin,” I said. “The bones are poking through your skin. Most unattractive.” “Only one bone counts”—he glanced down—“with women.” “More like a rope,” I said, critical. “A short little piece.” “Yours is.” Nector laughed, stuffing a huge grease-covered chunk of pakwezhigan into his mouth. “Neither one of you has much to brag of,” Margaret said, sitting down with us. “Women come to you out of pity.” But she smiled at me from the corner of her eye to let me know that this was not the case. My heart swelled up, and I experienced a collision of desires. First, I wanted to make the moment last with Margaret, in the hope that it would lead to other things. She had been generous two nights before. Would my luck hold out? Second, I wanted to go on teasing Nector, for his own good. Third, what was it? I couldn’t remember. An old man’s thoughts fly in and out of his head. Oh, yes. There was something I had to avoid. Like a treacherous rock, it could tear the bottom of my boat. But I couldn’t recall in that moment exactly what I was trying to avoid, and so, like someone trying to steer away, I instead was drawn right to it. “You’re pretty good at snaring women,” I said to Nector, “but you can’t keep them, I hear.” As soon as I said the word, I remembered with a jolt of panic, snare, snare, snare! Immediately, my brain spun. I tried to throw down a distracting piece of nonsense about the famous quality of Margaret’s bannock, but Nector had already seized on the word I feared. “Snaring?” He began to laugh. “I can’t hold myself back!” I cried, lunging over him. “I must have yet another piece of this bread. Old woman, you have a way with your cooking—” “—that snares you every time,” Nector said. “That reminds me—” “Ohweeh!” I cried out and fell upon the ground, as though unconscious, and began to writhe and moan. Nector and Margaret seemed to find in my agony a source of humor. “Look how the old man pretends he’s poisoned. Very funny. He does this all the time,” Margaret said fondly. “He’s a sly one,” Nector said, approving of me, too. “So good with a snare, he could snare a deer. He could snare anything or anyone! Remember how he used to snare . . .” He stopped and looked uncertainly at Margaret, whose mouth had dropped open and then slowly shut to a thinking line. Silence. I waited for her blows to fall upon me where I lay, but she did nothing, which made me even more afraid. I opened my eyes a crack, and my terror was confirmed. From the set of her mouth and the flash in her eyes, I knew that she understood all and was reserving punishment. Mere browbeating, tongue-lashing, ass-kicking, and starvation of an old man would not be enough. She gave a chilly little grin, rose, and turned her back on the two of us. “It is time for me to rest my old bones,” I said in despair. Then I crawled into a corner of the house and burrowed under a heap of blankets. I covered my face, bit my tongue, and turned to the wall. So I had snared her. She would snare me right back. We both knew that she was doing it and both of us knew why, but neither of us had the courage to dismantle the barrier of hard sticks and pointed words that soon tangled like deep bush between us. I knew that she had divined the true prey of the snare I’d set and had decided to resurrect my jealousy. Although I was aware of her ploy, I couldn’t keep the thorns of her words from piercing deep. One night, she hummed in an irritating manner, under her breath. “Niinimoshenh,” she finally let me hear her singing, “sweetheart, little duck, speak softly, for my old man will hear you creeping underneath my blanket.” Of course, after that I tossed all night, at each little noise, imagining the greasy old duck sneaking into our cabin. Now that she slept across the room from me, such a thing was remotely possible. I began to sleep by the door, but then I feared the window. The upshot was that I got no sleep at all. She boasted of the old duck’s hunting skills, and how he always had fresh game—waawaashkeshi or mooz. “Never gopher! Never things I’ve seen you eat!” “What would you know? You never cook for me anymore.” I tried to make myself meek and pitiful. “You’ll come home from Mass one day and find me dried up in the corner, starved to death.” “Go snare something then,” she said, heartless. She walked out laughing at me, came back with bird bones for her dress. I didn’t ask her where she’d got them, only if I could help her dye them red with the bark of speckled alder I’d gathered in atonement. “You?” She looked at me and sniffed, as though I were covered with moh. “You might interfere with the dress’s healing properties.” This cut me deeper than anything she’d said so far, and I let myself be naked in my speech. “I’ve got nothing in my heart but love for you.” “Nothing in your pants, either.” With a cruel laugh, she sat against the shady side of the cabin to work on her dress, which was almost finished. I must admit, she’d done a good job on it. The dress was made of a moose hide that she’d pounded and stretched and rubbed to a velvet softness. She’d used raspberry leaf and root dyes to color the bird bones, and, unlike the harsh, bright glare of the trader’s beads, these soft pinks and purples put roses in the woman’s cheeks. I said so. “Don’t touch” was all she said. “My roses have pickers so long they could pierce your heart and kill you.” I crept close to her, thinking that maybe the medicine dress would do its healing work and bring us together, but the opposite happened. “My, my.” She clucked her tongue, her eyes sparkling with malicious fire. “I’m dizzy. That old man down the road gave me a sip of wine!” There comes a time when you reach the last bitter drop your gullet can hold. That was it. I’d had enough. She wanted wine? I’d get her wine. I knew where Sister Hildegarde Ann kept the parish communion wine in the convent cellar, which opened from a side door with a flimsy bolt. I’d steal a whole cask, I decided, and bring it back to our cabin. I’d have a party with my sweetheart, and our love would be just like old times. We’d have a bush dance for just the two of us! Once I made town, I visited around, chewed snuff, and killed time until it was dark, then crept close to the convent. Crouched beneath an open window, I heard the nuns say their nightly prayers. “God comfort you, my daughters,” I whispered as they doused their lamps and made their way to their lonely cells. “And may you all get laid.” After I had pronounced my blessing, I waited until they slept and then I went to the cellar door and used a splinter of partridge bone jammed in the crack between the door and the frame to ease the bolt from its casing. It didn’t take long. The cool, winy air rushed at my face as I hefted a little wooden keg onto my shoulder and set off for home. It had been a very long time since I’d tasted wine. In my youth it had made me foolish, stolen my brain, and left a bannock between my ears. Drink had caused me to sing and gamble, to fight, to chase women who belonged to other men. Liquor had not got the best of my life, but I knew well its evil powers. And yet, at that moment, all I could think of was its delights. The sour and delicious fumes exuding from the keg made my mouth water. The air was heavy and growing heavier. I set the cask down and took a rest beside the road. If I had a drink, I thought, my load would be one drink lighter. The wine went down easy. The keg went back up slow. A familiar warmth burned in my gut and then swirled up around my heart. The moon was just bright enough for me to make out the road. As I walked on, the warm thrill of wine reached my tongue and untied it. I found myself singing an old love song. You are paddling away, my sweetheart. But I will come after you. Marry me tonight. Into my thoughts came pictures of the happiness that Margaret and I would feel once we’d put aside our game of revenge. That jealous game had run away with us, and then it had turned around and run over us. Flattened us good. The keg grew heavy again. I stopped on the road and took a drink to lighten it, and then another, and then perhaps one too many, for I stumbled as I set off once more. At one point, near dawn, I woke to find myself curled up around my friend, the keg, right in the middle of the road. I took another drink. By then the cask was so light that I had no trouble reaching the cabin. Margaret greeted me at the doorway. Her look was foul. “I was up all night, worried! I thought a bear got you!” “Ah.” I put the wine cask down and covered my heart with the palms of my hands, overcome. “My love! You worried about me?” She regarded the keg suspiciously. “What did you bring, akiwenzii?” “That is a peace offering,” I said. “It is wine. You told me the black duck tried a sip of wine to win your womanly favors. I thought I’d do him one better and offer you a cask . . . or most of it.” Margaret looked down at the keg, frowning, then kicked it. It rolled, nearly empty. “Most of it?” she said. She shook her head and hid, perhaps, a little smile. I poured a tin cup full and offered it to her. For a moment, she looked tempted, and then she knocked the cup out of my hands. “Your damn keg’s nearly empty! You drank it all!” I retrieved the cup midair—a drunk is capable of such tricks—and downed it in one defiant gulp without a drop spilled. “I’m a medicine dancer, according to my dream,” Margaret said, standing as proud and straight as her old bones would allow. “I won’t take the ishkodewaaboo, old man.” But she had seen the lengths to which I was willing to go to win her favor, and much of her anger toward me seemed to have dissolved. Perhaps the dress had helped, too. She had been working on it when I arrived, and now she held it up against her—a soft, dun-colored, plum-beaded, old-time dress. Finished. “Put it on,” I urged. “Let me see you in it!” I leaned back against a tree and watched as she shook off her old cotton majigoode, stood a moment in only her shift. Carefully, she lowered the new medicine dress onto herself and then stalked inside to fetch her eagle fan from its strap on the wall. While she was in there, she braided her hair and painted two black dots at the corners of her eyes. Then she emerged from the cabin and stood regal and queenly before me. I had to lower myself to sit against the tree or I would have fallen over from the simple beauty of the shock. Margaret. Rushes Bear. Granddaughter of old Medicine Dress. My love. She looked like a woman from a dream, a spirit lady, an ogichidaa ikwe. Tears stung my eyes, and I overflowed and wept. “My precious sweetheart, are you a vision?” “Of sorts,” Margaret said, carried away a little herself. If we had stopped right there, we would have ended up happy together for the day and on into the night. But my guardian spirits weren’t with me. My love luck failed. Because, once I told her I would sing for her, once I fetched the drum and she started to dance, Margaret ruined the effect. Though the dress was magnificent, my lady love was barely competent. “I guess I never saw you dance before,” I mumbled, surprised and dizzied by her bobbing missteps. “Sure you have,” Margaret said. “Many times. As you remember, I was head female dancer years ago.” “Mii nange,” I mumbled, not sure of anything. “You’re tipping!” “You’re tipping, old shkwebii.” She was irritated. “You can’t see straight.” But she was wrong. There were two of her, but both were hopping around in as miserable a crow step as a white woman. It hurt to watch. “Dagasanaa, please,” I asked her very gently, as careful with my words as I could be, “let me put on the dress and show you how to do it!” She stopped dancing with a jerk, drove her hands to her hips, and glared. She puffed out her cheeks and looked as though she might explode in a cloud of bird-bone beads and tattered bashkwegin. Then she suddenly laughed, harsh and mean. “I’d love to see you in a dress, old crazy. The medicine is strong in this one. Maybe it will sober you up!” “I don’t care about that, lady love,” I said to her in my most sincere voice. “I just want to make sure you don’t make a fool of yourself.” At that, she almost ripped the dress off her body. “Here.” She thrust it at me. “You be the fool!” She was outraged, I knew it, but I thought to win her over with my patient instruction. I put on the dress and started easily, keeping to the beat with what I thought was wondrous perfection. My steps were subtle. I moved like water. I could feel how well I floated around on the grass of the yard, and then I lost myself in the beat, although the drum had stopped. I could feel her eyes upon me, full of unwilling admiration. But when I chanced to look around at last I found that I was quite alone. She was gone. I was miserably wounded, but only for a second, and in the next instant my suspicions grabbed me. Off to Shesheeb’s, no doubt! I started through the bush, intending to have it out with him at last. The leaves grew thick. Roots tripped me. Raspberry pickers scratched my arms, but I held to my path and eventually found the clearing around the little house that had once belonged to Iron Sky. Shesheeb hadn’t kept the place up at all. The roof was sagging. The yard was a mess of garbage. A thread of smoke twisted in the still air. My heart squeezed—was he inside the house with Margaret? I was just about to rush the cabin when the door opened and the old man emerged alone, hunched over, groping his way into the sun. He turned his face up to the light, squinting. So this was Shesheeb. Well, he was not much! Where was his power? His medicine? I made a small movement, and he turned his head. His hearing, at least, was very keen. Since I was already discovered, I stepped forward and presented myself before him. There were no words I needed to say. There was no message. I stood still in the sun and allowed him to examine me with what eyesight he had, to recognize me, and in so doing recognize his crime. I waited. He blinked his white eyes, opaque and cloudy with cataracts. His face had collapsed around his nose. His nostrils quivered, his chin strained toward me as he tried to sense what he could. His rag of white hair hung to his waist, and his pants were held up by rope. He was nothing to look at. He didn’t even have shoes on, so I could see that his feet were filthy clawed things, splayed and frightening. I could not imagine what Margaret saw in him—in fact, it was now clear that she’d only been trying to pique my jealousy all along. “Who are you?” Shesheeb asked, at last. “You beauty, have you come to tempt me?” I stepped back, startled, as you can imagine. I had entirely forgotten, in my examination of the old man, that I was dressed as an attractive woman. But now I had an idea. I’d get the old fake to fall in love with me. I’d torture his heart! I’d make him beg for my attentions, then abandon him and have a good laugh with Margaret. I didn’t dare use my voice. “Ahhh,” I sighed. Just a little sigh, like some wind caught in the branches. He stepped closer. His nose twitched back and forth. “Piindigen! Come into my cabin and have a cup of tea with me,” he cried. “There’s a chill in the air today.” “Mmmm,” I crooned. I had to agree with him. Tea sounded just the thing. Inside, the place was chaos. Piles of junk everywhere. Bones in one corner, rags in another. No place to sit and barely room to stand. There was a mashed old iron pot on top of the stove with some oily tea in it. This Shesheeb tried to heat up. Next to the pot was a can with scum at the bottom, soup maybe. His supper, no doubt. I couldn’t help but gloat and, in my gloating, wonder at my luck in holding on to a woman who kept things comfortable for me, cooked my food, and never let my tea grow cold and unpleasant like the tea that Shesheeb gave me now. I took a drink. Though it was only half warmed up, still the tea seemed to fill my bones with a hot, blooming sensation. I finished the stuff and then, in spite of myself, I wanted more. Which was when it hit me. He’d hit me. Shesheeb had medicined me and I’d fallen for it! He was smiling now, just a hint of a smile, private and knowing. I was suddenly sure that he knew exactly who I was and had planned this moment. Perhaps he had even drawn me to him through the woods. Though blind and decrepit, he still had power. He picked up a hand drum with knowing authority. “May I play a little song for you?” he said, his voice a slippery whine. Without waiting for my answer, he struck the drum. “Niimin,” he ordered. Against my will, I began to dance, just as he had directed. Quietly, with even movements, in exact time with the drum and the strange song he sang, I bobbed in the shadowy mess of Shesheeb’s cabin. I tried to stop myself, to still my legs, to make my feet heavy. But I could not, and the movement of my body soon filled me with horror as nothing else had ever done. I was quickly becoming exhausted, too, reeling from the wine and the long stumble back from town. Still my feet rose and my legs trod. I knew that if I danced much longer my old heart would burst. Bright spots shifted across my vision, pain shot through my lungs. And then Shesheeb’s dog bounded in to greet its master. With a cry, almost of fear, he tried to shoo it out. It had been a good while since I had medicined that dog by accident, but now, to my surprise, Shesheeb became flustered by its presence. The old duck beat the drum a little faster. The dog grovelled and licked his knee. He tried to kick it away, but my love powder was too strong. The dog fell into a sudden passion, hunkered over, and began to make love to Shesheeb’s shin with a vicious ardor that cared not for sharp words or strikes. That dog humped away like the devil and broke Shesheeb’s rhythm with its thrusts. Released, I pushed past the old medicine man and staggered into the freedom of the yard and then the woods, for I did not even pause but plunged forward in a stupor of relief until I reached the main road. There I stopped. Which way to turn, home or town? Either way, what was there for me now but more shame and misery? I headed for town and slept the afternoon and night away in the cemetery. I’d eluded Shesheeb, but not his tea, which knocked me out. The next morning, the Pukwans, who dug graves for twenty-five cents a hole, came and found me laid out cold. A dipper of water splashed in my face, and I clenched my eyes shut. Another dipper of water stung me. “Enough!” I put my hand up and struggled to sit. I was hampered, it seemed, by a sheet wound around my legs. “Come look at the mindimooyenh,” one Pukwan yelled to the other. I staggered to my feet and tried to walk. “How did this woman’s dress get on me, my brothers?” I asked the Pukwans, sincerely puzzled. “You pulled it over your fat head,” one said. Then, with relish, he added, “Do you know what today is?” “Today,” I said, thinking as quickly as my throbbing old brain would allow, “is the day we dress as women.” Both Pukwans burst into howls and sneers of derision. “His brain has for sure flipped over in his skull,” they agreed. “He has forgotten that this is the day of the council meeting.” They were right, I had forgotten. This was the morning that I, as tribal chairman, was supposed to preside, and then call a vote on whether we should accept the large cash settlement that was offered us if we were willing to leave our scrap of land. “Lend me clothes,” I begged the Pukwans, instantly doubling the volume of their hilarity. When they refused, I drew myself up straight and headed off, trying to reclaim my dignity. I had no idea what I could do to maintain my position of respect once I appeared before the meeting. I thought of two people on the way whose clothes I might beg, but they weren’t home. Doubtless, they were waiting for me with the others at the powwow arbor, ready to decide the future of our tribe. There was nothing for it, I counselled myself, but to go forward boldly and rely on inspiration. When I reached the arbor, I strode to the center of the dance ground, and instead of skulking and cringing in shame I threw open my arms. I turned in a circle and let people gawk and chatter and react with owlish surprise. When their speculation died away, I opened my mouth. “Friends, relatives, nindinawemaaganidok,” I said. “You have made free with your laughter. You have subjected this dress, which my wife made, to derision and to ridicule. You have satisfied yourselves at the expense of this piece of clothing I am wearing. Now let us speak of where it came from: the spirits. Let us speak of the decision before us—which also involves the spirits. Let us speak of my wife, Margaret, who is also called Rushes Bear. For the spirits, again, have called on her. Let us speak of her vision. “This vision occurred to Margaret in the bush where the trees grow thick. That is when she saw the making of this dress, which some of you know was made with nothing ever touched by the chimookomaanag. This dress is sacred. This dress was made with healing in mind. So how, you wonder, did old Nanapush come to wear it? That is a very good question. “Although I have faith in the old ways, I was finally persuaded to try the Eucharist. Father Damien and my dear wife have been after me for years to receive the benefit of the white man’s God, and at last I did give in to their wishes. In one night, I made up for all the years of the blood of Christ that I had missed. Inspired by the sacramental wine, and perhaps a little mad, I persuaded my wife to let me wear her holy dress. In her compassion for me, she gave it up, saying that it contained a powerful medicine that might work with the wine to give me insight and wisdom into the grave problem now before us. “I am not afraid, as others may be, that my manhood will be compromised by such a little thing as wearing a skirt. My manhood is made of stiffer stuff. Rather, I worry that I, like so many other men who boast of their superiority and revel in their brute strength, cleverness, or power, am unworthy to wear the dress of a woman.” Here I paused. I took a close look at the crowd. My initial impression—that it was composed of three women to every man—was confirmed. I went on. “We call the earth Grandmother. We ask for her help when times are difficult. When we are lonely, or harrowed by death, we throw ourselves upon her and weep onto her breast. All that we are and all that we survive upon comes from the Grandmother. But there is a limit to everything, even your grandma’s patience. When I donned my wife’s dress, I admit that I was at first defiant, and, as I have confessed to you, quite drunk. But the dress itself is sacred, as you know, and even though I am a clever fool it stopped my thoughts and humbled me and made me listen. “ ‘Listen, old fool,’ I heard the earth tell me. ‘You are walking on my beautiful body. And I allow it, not because you are a human and not because you are a man, but because you were born of a woman. I, the earth, respect a woman’s pain as it is freely given to the service of life. The only time you men suffer is when your bellies are stretched too full of the food your wives cook for you. What would you do, you poor creature, decorated with a knob and a couple of balls,’ the earth asked me, ‘if all the women of the world closed their legs to men? Die out, that’s what. So, with my generous nature, I have given you all that you have. You owe your life to me. Now I ask you, what have you given me in return?’ ” I turned to my relatives, my people, and opened my arms wide. “What have we given her?” To my question, there was no answer. I’d said enough. I walked off and left the assembly to ponder my words. When they voted, they rejected the land settlement. So the dress worked. Its medicine was the sacred shame that it provoked in me and the power that it gave to my tongue and brain. I knew that it was the dress that had spoken through me, and I was humbled. In that mood, I decided to return to Margaret. As I neared the cabin, I planned an anxious series of making-up offers, all based on my love for Margaret. I hoped that she would greet me, no matter how angry. I would endure her whipping tongue, bear the bite of her disdain, if only she was there, I thought, waiting for me. But when I got to our little home the door was shut, the cabin empty, the stove cold, and her blanket gone. I stood in the quiet, sick and wondering. What gives us such cause to harm each other? Where do we come by our anger and our pride? I had no doubt even then that Margaret loved me and I loved her. Yet as a couple our main activity, it seemed, was making each other miserable. “Please come home,” I cried out the open door, “and let me love you the way you deserve!” But from the massed green leaves and the thick growing trees there was no answer. At that moment, I understood that the manidoog, too, were tired of me, that I’d gone one step too far. I sank to the earth, put my head in my hands. With all my heart I wished to be forgiven. Going back through the nights and days, I began to count up all I’d done to the people around me. I tried to name each name, I tried to beg their mercy and humbly address each problem I’d created, starting with the day I tried to snare Shesheeb. I began with good intentions, but I quickly fell asleep. The list was too long. The day too warm. The breeze so calm and golden. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Pond, With Mud	“The yellow bird made from cloth and / vines sits better in the / window than / the red truck I built last / year of / bottles,” Patrick Rouse wrote, in the fifteenth volume of what he liked to refer to as his life’s work—in reality, a journal crammed with passages written in a metaphorized terminology that Patrick had borrowed, or so he told himself, from the Imagist poets, and which he used to describe his emotions and whatever objects aroused his emotions. The “yellow bird,” for instance, referred to a lingerie bikini set featuring yellow lace woven in a tropical-jungle motif, which he had purchased a few days before for his fiancée, Caroline, who, at that moment, was standing in the living room modelling it for Patrick and—though the boy could hardly appreciate the significance of his mother’s erotic poses in bare feet before the hearth . . . or could he?—for her son, the “three-eyed rabbit.” That being, of course, more of Patrick’s code, or poetry, in this case describing Gregory, Caroline’s five-year-old from her marriage to Roger, an unemployed chamber musician. “You like it?” Caroline asked Patrick. He did. He did like it! He said, “That’s a good color for you.” Caroline turned and peered over her shoulder, as if into a mirror hung on the wall. There was no mirror. She drank from her wine, and said, “It is a good color, isn’t it? I wouldn’t have picked it, because it’s bright. But you spotted it! You had the wisdom to see it.” She took another sip. “Not wisdom,” Patrick said, as he wrote, in scratchy blue letters on a blank page in the book open on his lap, “Fat airplanes spot cloudless skies / their propellers / soft fans humming / leaking,” which was effectively a reminder to himself that soon he would be taking off his clothes, getting into bed, pushing aside the blue coverlet, climbing atop Caroline, and fucking. “You always know what colors I can wear.” “All I need to figure that out is a peek in the closet.” At that point Gregory, who was sitting in the enormous Mission-style chair beneath the framed photograph of Caroline on vacation, waving from the bow of the U.S.S. Wisconsin—Gregory made one of his demands. “Other! Chair!” “Do you want to get him?” Patrick said. “You get him. I’ve got these new things on.” What was difficult was not moving the boy from one chair to another, exactly; the problem consisted in the likelihood that, once moved, Gregory might become sad. It was grotesque, Patrick thought, always to be hoisting this growing boy, who could, after all, walk. Why did they do it, he and Caroline? Why did they take orders from Gregory? There was nothing wrong with him—at least, nothing Dr. Percy could ever find. “Here I come, my young boy who is not my own,” Patrick said. It was one of his jokes. He closed the volume on his lap, and capped his pen, an ostentatious black-and-red lacquered fountain pen that he had bought for himself as a gift, and which leaked while he wrote. As always, he checked his hands, his shirt, and the front of his pants around the zipper. He found no ink smears. It had been a good writing day. It frequently happened, when Patrick stopped purposefully making notes in “Pond, with Mud” (his secret name for his encrypted journal), that he began to feel as if he might be on the verge of formulating a concrete idea about the nature of existence, and about his place in the scheme of things. It was a feeling that came, as he thought of it, from deep in his heart. But each time he got this feeling it almost instantly went away. Would he never know what it was that he was trying to think about himself? He forced himself to concentrate on Gregory. The boy was spread, neither sitting nor lying—Gregory was doing a perverse version of both at once—across the leather seat cushion of the big Stickley that Patrick had carted with him everywhere he’d lived since college. The chair was coming apart in places. Something structural somewhere had broken, and one leg had a tendency to work its way gradually loose from the frame. Every now and then, the leg had to be slapped back into position. Patrick had seduced Amy in this chair. Then Vanessa. Then Caroline. He said to the sprawling boy, “Funny Bunny, I’m going to do something for you that you are going to like.” “Don’t get him excited,” Caroline said. She placed her wineglass on the mantel. She did a slow, balletic turn, showing Patrick her body. And Patrick knew—her voice had that angry sound—that the wine had begun to take hold. He approached the boy. He leaned over and placed his hands under Gregory’s arms. He began to lift. He said, “Do you love it when I hold you in the air? Are you my Bunny?” In fact, the approval Patrick cared for was Caroline’s. Patrick craved recognition from her, in order to view himself favorably as a man who could function as a father. This had become especially meaningful to him after what had happened a few days before. He had taken the afternoon off from his job at the printing press and gone with the boy in tow to catch the two-o’clock train to the zoo that had recently opened on the outskirts of town, on marshlands that had been home to a chemical-solvent extraction plant that had burned to the ground. Immediately following the zoo’s inaugural ribbon-cutting ceremony—or relatively soon after, to be more precise—strange things had begun to happen to the more esoteric wild animals. Why was it that the rare and endangered species, the ones you’d never heard of, all seemed to have compromised immune systems? At any rate, it had been reported in the papers that the board of governors and the director of the zoo were soon to come under indictment for cruelty to animals and for various misappropriations of municipal funds. The zoo’s future was in question. The time for a visit was now. “Here we go!” Patrick had exclaimed to Gregory as, with the boy’s damp hand grasped in his fist, the two of them made their way awkwardly through one of the angling, cavernous passageways leading from the street to the elevated central lobby of the city’s restored Art Deco train terminal. Patrick was in the habit of carrying along, wherever he went, the current volume of “Pond, with Mud.” Here, with a view ahead toward the train station’s towering and heavily leaded windows, windows that allowed ray after ray of sunlight to spill into the station’s airy middle spaces, illuminating floating dust motes and giving the whole marble place the steamy, mystical aura of a site associated with feelings and moods that were, for want of a better word, spiritual (the spirit of progress? This, to Patrick, had the feel of a theme), even otherworldly—here in the train station, Patrick felt inspired to say to the boy, whose hand he now shook loose, “Hang on a minute, Bunny.” He took his pen from the inside pocket of his coat. He unscrewed the brass-and-lacquer cap. What he loved most about untwisting the cap was the care required to keep the ink from running. Rituals were important. For instance, Patrick always carried the journal tucked at a certain angle beneath his left arm, pressed close to his heart, in the manner, he fantasized, of some boyish scholar traipsing with a rare edition of Donne through an English library hung with tapestries. Now he opened the volume and found a clean page. He gazed up at the tile mosaics of women’s faces adorning the lintels above the station windows. As he wrote, Patrick whispered to himself, in cadence with the travellers’ footsteps echoing along the entryway to the great hall, “Beasts or angels / arcing / entwined though dead among / cloud forms / invisible.” “We! Go!” Gregory shouted, badly interrupting Patrick, who looked rapidly left to right, and up and down, saying, “What? What? Of course, Gregory. We’re going to the zoo to see the deformed animals.” Patrick had one of his upsetting everyday thoughts: Christ, I’m not much of a poet, am I? He pushed this question out of his mind. In a soft voice, and in tones meant to be conciliatory, he said to Gregory, “Hey, little man, you don’t have to scream.” It was too late. The boy was crying. Patrick shut the book, and felt dismay. He had forgotten to blow the ink dry, and the page would smudge. It would be a bad writing day. “Shit,” he said to Caroline’s son, bawling in the middle of the crowded station concourse. Carefully Patrick capped and returned the pen to the interior pocket of his jacket. He produced a wad of the loose tissues he always carried in his coat pockets for these routine weeping sessions. He knelt and pushed the soft white paper toward the boy’s face. What had made him think that he could ever deal with a kid? In fact, he was dealing with a kid, and not doing nearly as bad a job as he worried others might suppose, were any of those people rushing by—on their way to trains or jobs—to stop and watch as he wiped the tears and the snot from Gregory’s cheeks and the rashy area around his mouth. “There, it’s all right. Come on. Don’t you want to see the goiters on the chimpanzees?” “The! What?” “Where in the world did you learn to talk, anyway?” Patrick asked. This question came out sweetly. He said, “We’re a pair, aren’t we?” and finished wiping the boy’s face. Gregory had such clear eyes. They were not at all bloodshot, even after sobbing. Patrick deposited the wet tissues back in a coat pocket to dry for the next squall. From another pocket he fished a child-size bottle of juice and a miniature straw. He shook the bottle, opened it, planted the straw in the juice, and held bottle and straw for Gregory to drink. The bottle was quite small; Patrick’s hand closed around it. Were you to have seen the two of them, the man kneeling before the boy, the boy sucking on the almost invisible plastic straw, you might have imagined that the boy was drinking from the man’s hand. “Ready?” Patrick asked. “Juice!” Gregory exclaimed, and, just like that, he was done drinking, and everything returned to normal. Patrick removed the wet straw from the juice. He capped the bottle and put it back in his pocket for later. No trash can was in sight, so he replaced the straw in the jacket pocket already stuffed with the bottle and the used tissues. Looking over the top of Gregory’s head, he saw, across the terminal crowded with people indistinctly coming and going, a young man and woman holding hands and running, though not in the manner of people hurrying to board a train. The girl seemed to be skipping, or dancing. Her skirt flew up around her legs. Was there music playing in her head? Was she maybe wearing headphones? Patrick took Gregory’s hand in his. He said, with equal measures of sarcasm and earnestness, “Shall we dance?” It was at this moment that a musician who had set up near the door to the street—the door through which Patrick and Gregory had entered the station—began playing a violin. The musician was situated directly behind Patrick, who, for one narcissistic moment, believed that the music in the tunnel was a reverberant production of his own imagination. Then, peering down at Gregory, he saw that Gregory was peeking around his, Patrick’s, legs. Gregory was seeing the man playing the violin. Patrick turned, and saw that the violinist was Roger, Gregory’s father, the man Caroline had been married to when Patrick had come on the scene. “Roger! Hey, Roger!” Patrick called down the corridor. It was an act of impulsiveness and guilt. Patrick heard his own voice echoing, decaying, and dying against the richer, seductive sounds of the music. The musician—yes, it was Caroline’s former husband—was wearing a green coat that looked frayed and unclean. God only knew what he might have been carrying in the pockets of that coat. It appeared that Roger had continued to be what he had been in the old days: a poor, alcoholic artist. “Look, Bunny,” Patrick said to the top of Gregory’s head. “Do you know who that man is?” “Daddy.” “Right you are. Daddy. The pea-green boat with torn sails. Someone should haul her out to sea.” What was he saying? What was he doing? Why had he called out? Had the violinist heard? Had Roger seen Gregory spying from behind Patrick’s legs? Patrick flipped open “Pond, with Mud,” got out his pen, went through the ritual of delicately removing the cap, and scribbled (after searching for an unsmudged page) a few lighthearted, comical-nautical associations. “Pea-green / boat / towed / in shreds / out.” This time he remembered to blow on the ink. And it was still possible, he thought, that Roger had neither seen nor heard them, that he and the boy might slip away and take refuge on a train-platform bench, before setting out on their journey to the contaminated zoo. He had taken the afternoon off for this. They really ought to make it to the zoo. He watched the violinist, who was swaying above the hips in that enchantedly theatrical fashion in which string players expectably do—as if blowing in the intermittent wind on which all music travels. And travellers, actual ones, entering and departing through the colossal wooden doors onto the street, altered their courses, automatically tacking around Roger and his empty music case left open on the ground for small bills and change. Patrick watched the bow rising and falling, pulled by the violinist’s hand across the instrument’s strings. He had the impression that the musician was rocking himself to sleep. The music rolled up the tunnel. Because the corridor walls and the ceiling were tiled, the notes came on amplified, and certain passages sounded both muddled and complexly dynamic, orchestral. It was Brahms. No, it wasn’t. It was Sibelius. No, it was Robert Schumann. It was not Mendelssohn—that much was evident, even to Patrick. And it was not, on second thought, Schumann. It was Brahms. Roger had had a thing for Brahms. Roger was looking at them now, peering along the narrow length of his violin’s neck, and out along the hundred feet of windowless tunnel that separated him from Patrick and Gregory. Even at this distance, Patrick, gazing back down the dirty white corridor, could see where Gregory had come by his big damp eyes. Patrick and the three-eyed rabbit stood watching Roger watch them. Now and then, people wearing backpacks, or maneuvering wheeled suitcases, came between them. The oncoming people pressed down on Patrick and the boy, and Gregory wrapped his arms around Patrick’s leg. What was interesting about this moment was the way in which Roger’s playing produced an occasion for what felt to Patrick like a bond between the men—it was music for male affinity, for courtship, for sharing—and, furthermore, between the men and the boy. Would Roger understand this? Gregory’s real parents, that early afternoon before the trip to visit the dying animals, were not Roger and Caroline, or even Patrick and Caroline, but Patrick and Roger. “I guess we ought to say hello,” Patrick said to Gregory. “Come on, Bunny, let go of my leg.” “Can’t!” “Yes, you can. Knock it off.” He had to reach down and pull the boy off him. He anticipated tears, but in fact he was the one who felt like crying. This feeling came on suddenly. He said, “I’m going to pick you up. You’ll be safe and happy in the air! Are you ready to be happy?” “Up!” “Good boy. Let’s say hi to your daddy, and after that we’ll ride out to the zoo and see something tragic.” Was he crazy? They’d never make their train this way. He knelt before the boy. Patrick held the journal in one hand. Now he reached behind Gregory, pressing the journal between his arm and Gregory’s back. His other hand went beneath Gregory’s arm. He got a grip on Gregory. He stood and brought the boy close to him, squeezing him with “Pond, with Mud.” He would have preferred to avoid carrying Gregory. Once up, the kid would be unwilling to go down. And lately he’d got heavy. The boy was all muscle and snot. How would Patrick carry him all day long? If only Caroline had been with them. On the other hand, though, maybe not. In truth, it occurred to him, he didn’t want Caroline there at all. “Wait a minute, hold on, wait a minute,” he said to the Funny Bunny. There was something Patrick had to get down in the work-in-progress, before he forgot. It was about Caroline. He pictured her dressed for the office, with her scarf knotted over the buttoned top button of her starched white shirt, noosing her neck. Why had Patrick never before considered that knotted scarf in relation to the death of love? The scarf produced such obvious imagery. Obvious? Not too obvious. What to do? How to get words down on paper? If he lowered the Bunny to the ground, there could be a tantrum and the day would be ruined. On the other hand, were he to try to open the book and take out the pen—well, forget it, it was out of the question. Could he persuade Gregory to climb up and ride on his shoulders, and in this way free his hands? But he wouldn’t have free hands, would he? He’d be holding Gregory’s knees, restraining Gregory from kicking him in the chest with the heels of his little rubber sneakers. He carried Gregory down the tiled hall, against the rush of people entering from the street. He felt afraid. Why, all of a sudden, was he so full of fear? He knew the answer. It was simple. He wasn’t making his art. No, that wasn’t the complete answer. The complete answer was that he was not an artist. He was a person who let language dissolve into nothingness. Did that qualify as an insight? Walking along the train-station tunnel, the boy cradled in his arms, he felt as if he were pushing through music—as if the music from the violin had become resistant, like a substance. “Hello!” Patrick said too loudly to the violinist. “Brahms!” he exclaimed. Why was he talking like the boy? What an idiot he was. He’d become submissive. The only way he could make things worse would be to pull dollar bills from his pocket and toss them into the violin case. With one arm, he held Gregory. He dug deeply into his pants pocket. Money and old tissues were wadded in a ball in Patrick’s pocket. He brought out a handful. There was no way for him to count the money. He held it up before his eyes. Twenties and fives. “Gregory and I were on our way to the zoo! I took the day off. We thought we could maybe see a few wild animals before they have to quarantine them. That’s a joke. I guess it’s not funny.” And he said, “Right, Gregory? The zoo! Gregory, say hello to your father.” And with that he let a few bills flutter from his hand to the case on the ground. It was probably thirty or forty dollars. Could anything have been meaner? Could he have been more cruel? Here was a demonstration of the power of a weak man over a weaker man. And there was more to come, when he shoved the money and the tissues back into his pocket, and said, “Can I buy you a drink?” Patrick understood that he was not so much abusing the other man as punishing himself; they would drink together, the two men, and Patrick would buy, and he would get drunk enough to give himself credit for being a generous person. Later in the day, Roger might get up his nerve and punch him; but if he did he might injure his hand and be unable to play the violin for a while, and Patrick would be obliged to help him with a loan. There was no end to it. “Drink?” the violinist said. Immediately he stopped playing and knelt to stow away his violin. He took care securing it in the case, but was speedy nonetheless. He needs a drink, Patrick thought. Patrick felt misgivings as he watched the violin-case lid come down over money that had recently been his. Roger snapped the case shut and stood up, and, a moment later, Gregory and his two fathers set out to waste the day sitting on stools in a dark train-station bar, a place off to the side, away from the sunlight, and populated with men who leaned down hard and unspeaking over their glasses. There was no music in the bar. The place looked to Patrick as if it had been neglected by the architects who had recently completed the renovation of the train station. Had they forgotten about it? It had a linoleum floor, and, in keeping with the historical standards for furnishings in these sorts of haunts, red vinyl booths, and walls painted a dark shade down low, toward the floor, and a lighter color up above. The ceiling was yellowing; certainly in another age, the seventies most likely, it had been white. All those burning cigarettes. All those people coughing themselves to death. Patrick imagined the dark bar full of coughers. There was something about the smell in the place, too. It smelled to Patrick like a hospital, or, faintly, like Roger, except saltier. This bar off to the side of the concourse was all that was left of the old train station; it reminded Patrick of the periods in modern literature when a decline in civilization is evident in the works of the poets. But when he thought about this he could not dream up any original lines that did not refer to cigarettes, or to the fact that lit cigarettes held in the air by drunks in dark rooms become little galaxies, spiralling. Roger threw his violin case on the bar. This was a powerful move on his part. It showed that he had confidence in what he trusted (the hard case) to protect what he needed (the fragile violin) in order to maintain for himself some small place in which he could be a—what? A man in the world. Patrick settled Gregory on a stool. Then, in an imitation of Roger’s confidence, he threw “Pond, with Mud” on the bar. This was a cavalier and companionable gesture. There would be time later to compose formal impressions regarding the experience of chucking his literary work around. In the meantime, he felt in his coat pocket for the fountain pen. There it was, clipped to the pocket’s lining. The bartender came over. Roger asked for a beer. “Sure thing, Roger,” the bartender said to him. “How’s it going today?” “Money!” “Good for you.” This short conversation emboldened Patrick to order a drink suitable for the occasion. What was the occasion? And never mind that Scotch had been his father’s drink. In memory, Patrick could see the old man with a drink in his hand, inhaling from his cigarette in the night. Frankly, there came a point in each and every day when Patrick saw this image of his father. “May I have a Scotch-and-soda?” “Anything for the little guy?” the bartender asked, and, for a moment, Patrick was not sure what the man was talking about. He thought the bartender was referring to him—to Patrick. Little guy? Patrick caught on and said, “I’m carrying juice.” He hauled the juice out of his coat pocket. He shook the bottle. He reached back into his pocket, got the miniature straw, and wiped it with a bar napkin. While wiping, he said, “Roger, I like your playing.” Where were those drinks? Patrick looked at Gregory and said, “How are you doing on that stool, Bunny? Comfortable? We can move over to a booth as soon as one opens up. Please don’t cry.” “Bunny?” This from Roger. “We call him that. Actually, we don’t call him that. I call him that. Right, Bunny? Are you my Funny Bunny?” Patrick had the juice ready. He held the bottle for Gregory to drink. Gregory, somehow managing to keep his balance on the elevated bar stool, leaned over between the two men, took the straw expertly in his mouth, and, with his hair falling forward over his ears, hiding his face, began to suck. Patrick said, “Yeah, good boy.” “Yeah! Boy,” Roger exclaimed. Who was submissive now? The drinks came, and Patrick put his money on the bar. Roger got his beer, and Patrick his Scotch; Gregory worked on his miniature juice; the three of them drank together. It was a moment of harmony produced—in that cosmic darkness that made the forlorn station bar a place apart from the world—by alcohol, the absence of women, and, Patrick thought, love. “Shall we have another?” he asked. “Another,” Roger answered. “Here’s to being here,” Patrick said, hoisting his glass; and he had the feeling, as he made this toast, that there were all manner of things he wanted to say (and had for some time needed to say, now that he thought about it) to Roger. For instance, Patrick suddenly couldn’t wait to assure Roger that he and Caroline had been very upset when they’d discovered that he had lost his job teaching at the conservatory. But how to say this in words that would not be hurtful to the man’s pride? Also, was it a good idea for Patrick to let the deposed husband know that Caroline still cared for him? Was it wise for Patrick to mention Caroline at all? He felt himself on the verge of telling Roger that he was sure that he, Patrick, might be able to persuade Caroline to overlook a few of those child-custody legalities. Bury the axe. No one ever need raise his arm and strike anyone in anger again. Roger could drop by Patrick and Caroline’s apartment, have a beer or a glass of wine, play a lullaby on his fiddle, and hold his son for a few minutes. Roger didn’t look like a person who wanted to hurt a little boy. Did he? It wasn’t Patrick’s place to make promises to Roger. It wasn’t his place to say anything to Roger. Nonetheless he said, “Do you want to hold him?” Patrick drank from his drink. In that instant, he felt at peace with himself—he could understand drinking. Caroline did not like Patrick to drink. Correction: Caroline didn’t like him to drink too much. It occurred to him then that the anniversary of their engagement was coming up in three days. Jesus! He had to think about a present. The train-station bar was emptying. Patrick supposed that the men in the bar were leaving to catch trains to the suburbs. Either that or heading back to their jobs. Every now and then, the door to the bar would open, and light would flood in, briefly. The person leaving might stand silhouetted in this bright light, waving a hand at the drinkers left behind. “So long. See you tomorrow,” the bartender called toward the door as it closed. The light disappeared, and the bartender brought Patrick and Roger one beer and one Scotch. He counted out money from the pile in front of Patrick. The money was wet, and there was tissue paper mixed with it. “Do you want to hold him?” Patrick asked Roger again. “It’s all right if you don’t feel like it.” “No,” Roger said to him. “No? You don’t? Or you do? Want to hold the Bunny?” The bartender came back carrying change. He put the change on the bar. “Will you be wanting anything for your little boy? Will you be wanting a glass of milk?” Was the bartender addressing Patrick? Or Roger? Gregory had stopped drinking from the juice bottle and was leaning over against the rounded edge of the bar, his head pillowed on arms crossed beneath him, in the manner, and with the posture, of a child slumbering at a school desk. His eyes were closed. The juice was empty. “He’s doing fine, we’re all fine, we’re great, thank you,” Patrick said. Patrick was drunk. Being drunk, he wondered why he was not more often drunk. Was that right? Grammatically speaking? Not more often drunk? “You let me know,” the bartender said. To Roger, Patrick said, “Gregory is tired. We should let him rest a minute. You can hold him later.” Gregory’s real father had already finished his beer, Patrick noticed. How many did that make? In all? As for Patrick, he was not, when he spoke, slurring his words, though he feared he might slur his words, were he not careful not to. Something like that. Between the two men, the boy slept. These two grown men gazed at each other, through the dark, across the boy; and Patrick found himself wondering how old Roger was. Caroline had told him, but he couldn’t remember. In Roger’s eyes, Patrick saw the boy’s eyes. Roger’s face might or might not have been a predictor of the face Gregory would one day show to the world. Roger was unshaven, with hair growing down his neck, past the top of his shirt collar, which was unbuttoned to the third button, and lay open beneath the pea-green coat that needed cleaning, and which was either too large or too small for Roger—it was hard for Patrick to say which. The effect was tacky. No, “tacky” wasn’t the right word. Roger’s chest was white and skinny, the chest of a man who’d begun drinking before he was a man. And the tip of his nose was red—a red nose! Like Gregory, Roger had a rashy mouth. Whiskers went this way and that. His hair looked lifeless. He could play the violin, though. Boy, could he! That was a hell of a lot more than Patrick could do! Was it time yet to relocate from the bar to a booth? The bar stools weren’t the most comfortable things. “Bartender!” Patrick called. “Hit us!” And to Roger he said, “This is going to have to be it. I’m about out of cash.” The men looked sadly at the money. It was true, there wasn’t much left. Would Roger offer to spend the money that Patrick had dropped in his case? It was not likely. And, hey, where was “Pond, with Mud”? Had the bartender taken it and stashed it behind the bar? Had one of the miserable drunks walked off with it? No, there it was, next to the violin. It was safe. To Roger, Patrick said, “You’ve hardly said a word all night. All day. My friend. Tell me something. I’ve told you things. I’ve told you that Bunny and I are on our way to the zoo. I’ve told you we were going to look at all the crazy animals. I’ve told you that you can hold your son. I want you to tell me something I can write down. Tell me something, fucker,” he said to Roger, and immediately regretted this. “I’m sorry. I am sorry.” “Don’t,” the other man said. Don’t? Don’t what? Don’t be sorry? Don’t say these things? Don’t apologize? Don’t ask Roger to apologize? Roger placed his hand on Gregory’s back. He moved his hand gently, stroking the boy. As Patrick watched this, it came into his mind to say, “Don’t wake him.” Another “don’t.” Was that what Roger had meant? Don’t ask me not to touch my son? “Gregory.” Roger said his son’s name. “Gregory.” The boy’s face was wrinkled from lying against his arms and the edge of the bar. He was coming awake. How long had he been sleeping? What was the time? How could there be a bar without a clock? Patrick removed his malfunctioning pen from his pocket. But by the time he’d got the pen out he’d forgotten his subject. His subject had been? What were his subjects? Patrick’s subjects were the usual subjects. There was another of his unfunny jokes. Patrick’s subject had been time. But he’d forgotten time. Why was he holding his pen? He put it away. Was it leaking? No, that wetness Patrick felt was water dripping on him from the bottom of his glass. How much had he drunk? Or maybe the wetness was a spot of ink soaking through the lining of his coat, staining his shirt above his heart. And Patrick, unwilling or unable to allow himself to be vanquished by Roger, said, sharply, “Hey, everybody, I’m bleeding to death!” That did it. That brought on the tempest. Could anything have hurt Patrick more than to hear the boy cry out at the sound of his, Patrick’s, voice? “No crying, Bunny. O.K., no crying? No need to cry. I’m going to pick you up! You’ll be happy in the air! Are you ready to be happy?” He looked across at Gregory’s father. One last look before leaving. He believed he knew in that instant what he saw in Roger’s eyes. And with that he leaned close to Gregory, picked up the Scotch-and-soda from the bar, raised the glass to the boy’s lips, and said, “Here. Don’t cry.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
A Stone Woman	At first she did not think of stones. Grief made her insubstantial to herself; she felt as if she were flitting lightly from room to room like a moth. The apartment seemed constantly twilit, although it must, she knew, have gone through the usual sequences of sun and shadow over the days and weeks since her mother had died. Her mother—a strong, bright woman—had liked to live among shades of mole and dove. Her mother’s hair had shone silver and ivory. Her eyes had faded from cornflower to forget-me-not. Ines had found her dead one morning, her bloodless fingers resting on an open book, her parchment eyelids down, as though she dozed, a wry grimace on her fine lips, as though she had tasted something not quite nice. She quickly lost this lifelikeness, and became waxy and peaked. Ines, who had been the younger woman, became the old woman in an instant. She busied herself with her work as a researcher for a major etymological dictionary, and she tidied love away. She packed it into plastic sacks—creamy silks and floating lawns, velvet and muslin, lavender crêpe de chine, beads of pearl and garnet. People had thought she was a dutiful daughter. They could not imagine two intelligent women who simply understood and loved each other. She drew the blinds because the light hurt her eyes. Her inner eye observed the final things over and over. White face on white pillow among white hair. Colorless skin on lifeless fingers. Flesh of my flesh, flesh of her flesh. The efficient rage of consuming fire, the handfuls of fawn ash, which she had scattered, as she had promised, in the hurrying foam of a Yorkshire beck. She went through the motions, hoping to become accustomed to solitude and silence. Then one morning pain struck her like a sudden beak, tearing at her gut. She caught her breath and sat down, waiting for it to pass. It did not pass. It strengthened, blow on blow. She rolled on her bed, dishevelled and sweating. She heard the creature moaning. She tried to telephone the doctor, but the thing shrieked raucously into the mouthpiece, and this saved her, for they sent an ambulance, which took the screaming thing to a hospital, as it would not have taken a polite old woman. Later, they told her she had had at most four hours to live. Her gut had been twisted and gangrenous. She lay quietly in a hospital bed in a curtained room. Numb and bandaged, she drifted in and out of blessed sleep. The surgeon came and went, lifting her dressings, studying the sutures, prodding the walls of her belly with strong fingers. Ines was a courteous and shamefast woman. She did not want to see her own sliced skin and muscle. She thanked him for her life, unable to summon much warmth in her voice. What was her life now, to thank anyone for? The anesthetist came in to discuss what palliatives she might be allowed to take home with her. He said, “I expect you’ve noticed that there’s no sensation around the incision. That’s quite normal. The nerves take time to join again, and some may not do so.” He, too, touched the sewed-up lips of the hole, and she felt that she did not feel, and then felt the ghost of a thrill, like fine wires shooting out across her skin. The anesthetist said, “I see he managed to construct some sort of navel. People feel odd, we’ve found, if they haven’t got a navel.” She murmured something. “Look,” he said, “it’s a work of art.” So she looked, since she would be going home and would now have to attend to the thing herself. The wound was livid and ridged and ran the length of her white front, from the ribs to the hidden places below. Where she had been soft and flat, she was all plumpings and hollows, like an old cushion. And where her navel had been, like a button caught in a seam at an angle, was an asymmetric whorl with a little sill of skin. Ines thought of her lost navel, of the umbilical cord that had been a part of her and of her mother. Her face creased into sorrow; her eyes were hot with tears. The anesthetist misinterpreted them, and assured her that it would look much less angry and lumpy after a month or two, and if it did not it could easily be dealt with by a good plastic surgeon. Ines thanked him, and closed her eyes. There was no one to see her, she said, it didn’t matter what she looked like. The anesthetist, who had chosen his profession because he didn’t like people’s feelings and preferred silence to speech, offered her what she wanted, a painkiller. She drifted into cloud as he closed the door. Their flat, now her flat, was on the second floor of a nineteenth-century house in a narrow city square. The stairs were steep. The taxi-driver who brought her home left her, with her bag, on the doorstep. She toiled slowly upward. There was no need to hurry. She had time, and more time. She had been a good cook—she thought of herself now in the past tense—and had made delicious little meals for her mother and herself, light pea soups, sole with mushrooms, vanilla soufflés. Now she nibbled at cheese and crusts like a frugal mouse. The life had gone out of the furnishings. The polish was dulled and she left it like that: she made her bed with one crumpled pull. She stared out of the window, for minutes that seemed like hours, and hours that seemed like minutes. She liked to see the dark spread through the square, because it meant that bedtime was not far away. The day came when the dressings could, should, be dispensed with. She had been avoiding her body, simply wiping her face and under her arms with a damp facecloth. She decided to have a bath. Their bathtub was old and deep and narrow, with imposing brass taps and a heavy coil of shower-hosing. There was a wide wooden bath rack across it, which still held, she saw now, her mother’s private things—a loofah, a sponge, a pumice stone. The warmth of the water was nice. A few tense sinews relaxed. Time went into one of its slow phases. She sat and stared at the things on the rack. Loofah, sponge, pumice. A fibrous tube, a soft mess of holes, a shaped gray stone. She considered the differences between the three, all essentially solids with holes in them. The loofah was stringy and matted, the sponge was branching and vacuous, the pumice was riddled with needle holes. Biscuit-colored, bleached khaki, shadow gray. Colorless colors, shapeless shapes. The loofah and the sponge were the dried-out bodies, the skeletons, of living things. She picked up the pumice, a light stone teardrop, shaped to the palm of a hand. She felt its paradoxical lightness, then dropped it into the water, where it floated. She did not know how long she sat there. The water cooled. When she lifted herself, awkwardly, through the surface film, the pumice chinked against her flesh. It was an odd little sound, like a knock on metal. She put the pumice back on the rack, and touched her puckered wound with nervy fingers. Supposing something had been left in there? A clamp, a forceps, a needle? Not exactly looking, she explored her reconstructed navel with a fingertip. She felt a certain glossy hardness where the healing was going on. The next thing she noticed was a spangling of what seemed like glinting red dust, or ground glass, in the folds of her dressing gown and her discarded underwear. It was a dull red, like dried blood. At the same time, she noticed that the threads of her underwear appeared to be catching, here and there, on the healing scars. As the phenomenon grew more pronounced, she touched the area tentatively, over the cotton of her knickers. Her fingers felt whorls and ridges, even sharp edges. Each day the bumps and sharpness, far from receding, grew bulkier. One evening, in the unlit twilight, she finally found the nerve to undress and tuck in her chin to stare down at herself. What she saw was a raised shape, like a starfish, like the whirling arms of a nebula. It was the color—or a color—of raw flesh, like an open whip wound or a knife slash. It trembled, because she was trembling, but it was cold to the touch, as cold and hard as glass or stone. From the star-arms, red dust wafted like glamour. She covered herself hastily, as though what was not seen might disappear. The next day, it felt bigger. The day after, she looked again, in the half-light, and saw that the mark was spreading. It had pushed out ruddy veins into the tired white flesh, threading sponge with crystal. It winked. It was many reds, from ochre to scarlet, from garnet to cinnabar. She was half tempted to insert a fingernail under the veins and chip them off. She thought of it as “the blemish.” It extended itself—not evenly, but in fits and starts, around her waist, like a shingly girdle pushing long fibrous fingers down toward her groin, thrusting out cysts and gritty coruscations above her pubic hair. There were puckered weals where flesh met what appeared to be stone. What was stone—what else was it? One day, she found a cluster of greenish-white crystals sprouting in her armpit. These she tried to prize away, and failed. They were attached deep within; she felt their stony roots stirring under the skin surface, pulling at her muscles. Jagged flakes of silica and nodes of basalt pushed her breasts upward and flourished under the fall of flesh, making her clothes crackle and rustle. Slowly, slowly, day by quick day, her torso was wrapped in a stony encrustation, like a corselet. She could feel that under the stones her compressed inwards were still fluid and soft, responsive to pain and pressure. She was surprised at the fatalism with which she had resigned herself to her transformation. It was as though her thoughts and feelings, too, had slowed to stone-speed, nerveless and stolid. There were, increasingly, days when curiosity jostled her horror. One day, one of the blue veins on her inner thigh erupted into a line of rubious spinels, and she thought of jewels before she thought of pustules. Her legs now chinked together when she moved. The first apparition of the stony crust outside her clothing was strange and beautiful. She observed its beginnings in the mirror one morning, while brushing her hair: a necklace of veiled swellings above her collarbone, which broke slowly through the skin like eyes from closed lids, and became opal—fire opal, black opal, geyserite, and hydrophane, full of watery light. She found herself preening in the mirror. She dismissed, with no real hesitation, the idea of consulting the surgeon, or any other doctor. It was, of course, theoretically possible that she was deluded, that the winking gemstones and heaped flakes of her new crust were feverish sparks of her anesthetized brain and grieving spirit. But she didn’t think so—she refuted herself, as Dr. Johnson had refuted Bishop Berkeley, by tapping on stone and hearing the scrape and chink of stone responding. No, what was happening was, it appeared, a unique transformation. She assumed that it would end with the petrifaction of her vital functions. A time would come when she wouldn’t be able to see, or move, or feed herself (which might not matter). But, for the moment, she had grown no more than a carapace. Her joints obeyed her, light went from retina to brain, her budded tongue tasted the food that she still ate. In her mother’s bedroom there was a cheval glass, the only full-length mirror in the house. At the end of a day’s staring she would suddenly catch sight of a new shimmer of labradorite, six inches long and diamond-shaped, arrived imperceptibly almost, beneath her buttocks where her gaze had not rested. She saw dikes of dolerites, in graduated sills, now invading her inner arms. But it took weeks of patient watching before, by dint of glancing in rapid saccades, she surprised a bubble of rosy barite crystals breaking through a vein of fluorspar, and opening into the form known as a desert rose, bunched with the ore flowers of blue john. Her metamorphosis obeyed no known laws of physics or chemistry: ultramafic black rocks and ghostly Iceland spar formed in succession and clung together. One dark Sunday, when the midday sky was thick and gray as granite, when sullen thunder rumbled and the odd flash of lightning made human stomachs queasy, Ines was overcome with a need to be out in the weather. She put on wide trousers and a tunic, and over them a shapeless hooded raincoat. She pushed her knobby feet into fur boots, and her clay-pale hands, with their veins of azurmalachite, into sheepskin mittens, and set off down the stairs and into the street. She had wondered how her tendons and musculature would function. She thought she could feel the roll of polished stone in stony cup as she moved her pelvis and hips, raised her knees, and swung her rigid arms. There was a delicious smoothness to these motions, a surprise after the accommodations she was used to making for the crumbling calcium of arthritic joints. She strode along, aimlessly at first, trying to get away from people. She noticed that her sense of smell had grown sharper. She could smell the rain in the thick cloud blanket. She could smell the sulfur dioxide in the car exhausts and the rainbow-colored minerals in puddles of petrol. These scents were pleasurable. She came to the remains of a street market, and was assailed by the stink of organic decay, deliquescent fruit mush, rotting cabbage, old burned oil on greasy newspapers. She strode past all this, retching a little, feeling acid bile churning in a stomach sac made by now of what? She came to a park—a tamed, urban park, with rose beds and rubbish bins, doggy lavatories and a concrete fountain. The water fell on the cement with a new, intricate music. The smell of a rain squall blew away the wafting warmth of dog shit. She pulled off her hood. Her cheeks were beginning to sprout silica flakes and dendrite fibres, but from a distance she just looked, she thought, like a lumpy old woman. There were droplets of alabaster and peridot clustering in her gray hair like the eggs of some mythic stony louse. She shook her hair free and turned her face up to the branches and the clouds as the rain began. Big drops splashed on her sharp nose; she licked them from stiffening lips between crystalline teeth, with a still-flexible tongue tip, and tasted skywater, mineral and delicious. The lightning came in sheets of metal sheen. The thunder crashed in the sky, and the surface of the woman crackled and creaked in sympathy. She thought, I need to find a place where I can stand when I am completely solid. I should find a place outside, in the weather. When would she be, so to speak, dead? When her plump flesh heart stopped pumping the blue blood along the veins of her shifting shape? When the gray and clammy matter of her brain became limestone or graphite? When her brain stem became a column of rutilated quartz? When her eyes became—what? She was inclined to believe that her watching eyes would be the last thing. The phrase came into her head: Those are pearls that were his eyes. A song of grief made fantastic by a sea change. Would her eyes cloud over and become pearls? Pearls were interesting. They were a substance in which the organic met the inorganic, like moss agate. She had had the idea that the mineral world was one of perfect, inanimate forms, with an unchanging mathematical order of crystals and molecules beneath its sprouts and flows and branches. In the beginning, she had thought of her own transfiguration as something profoundly unnatural, a move from a world of warm change and decay to a world of cold permanence. But as she became mineral, and looked into the idea of minerals, she saw that there were reciprocities, both physical and figurative. The minds of stone-lovers had colonized stones with organic metaphors, like lichens clinging to them with golden or gray-green florid stains. Words came from flesh and hair and plants. Reniform, mammillated, botryoidal, dendrite, hematite. Carnelian is from “carnal.” Serpentine and lizardite are stone reptiles; phyllite is leafy green. The earth itself is made in part of bones, shells, and diatoms. Ines was returning to it in a form quite different from her mother’s fiery ash. She preferred the parts of her body that were now volcanic glasses, not bony chalk: chabazite, from the Greek for hailstone; obsidian, which, like analcime and garnet, has the perfect icositetrahedral shape. She visited city squares, and stood experimentally by the rims of fountains and in the entrances of grottoes. She had read of the hidden wildernesses of nineteenth-century graveyards, and it came to her that there, among weeping angels and grieving cherubs, she might find a quiet resting place. So, on a gray day in late winter, she set out on foot, hooded and booted, with her new, indefatigable rolling pace, marble joint in marble socket. As specks of half rain and half snow spat in the fitful wind, she strode in through a wrought-iron gate in a high wall. What she saw was a flat stony city, house after house under humped ripples of earth, marked by flat stones, standing stones, canted stones, fallen stones, soot-stained, dropping-stained, scum-stained, crumbled, carved, repeating, repeating. She walked along the silent pathways, past dripping yews and leafless birches and speckled laurels, looking for stone women. They stood there—or, occasionally, lay fallen there—on the rich earth. There were many of them, but they resembled one another with more than a family resemblance. There were the sweetly regretful lady angels, one arm pointing upward, one turned down to scatter an arrested fall of stony flowers. There were the child angels, wearing simple embroidered stone tunics over chubby stone knees, also holding drooping flowers. Some busy mason had turned them out to order, one after the other, their sweetly arched lips and apple cheeks well-practiced tricks of the trade. There was no other living person in that place, though there was a great deal of energetic organic life—long, snaking brambles thrust between the stones for a place in the light; tombstones and angels alike wore bushy coats of gripping ivy. Ines looked at the stone people. Several had lost their hands, and lifted blind stumps to the gray air. These were less upsetting than those who were returning to formlessness, whose fists seemed rotted by leprosy. Someone had come and sliced the heads from the necks of several cherubs—it had been done recently; the severed edges were still an even white. The stony representations of floating things—feathered wings, blossoms, and petals—made Ines feel queasy, for they were inert and weighed down; they were pulled toward the earth and what was under it. Around the edges of the vast field of stones, within the spiky confines of the wall, was a shrubbery, with narrow paths and a few stone benches and compost bins. As she went into the bushes, she heard a sound, the chink of hammer on stone. She stood still. She heard it again. Thinking to surprise a vandal, she turned a corner and came upon a rough group of huts and a stack of stony rubble. One of the huts was a long open shelter, wooden-walled and tile-roofed. It contained a trestle table, behind which a man was working with a stonemason’s hammer and chisel. He was a big muscular man, with a curly golden beard, tanned skin, and huge hands. Behind him stood a gaggle of stone women, in various states of disrepair—lipless, fingerless, green-stained, soot-streaked. He made a gesture as if to cover up what he was doing, which appeared, from the milky sheen of the marble, to be new work, rather than restoration. Ines sidled up. She had almost given up speech, for her voice scratched and whistled oddly in her petrifying larynx. She shopped with gestures, as though she were an Eastern woman, robed and veiled, too timid, or linguistically inept, to ask about things. The stonecutter looked up at her, then down at his work, and made one or two intent little chips at it. Ines felt the sharp blows in her own body. He looked across at her. She whispered—whispering was still possible and normal—that she would like to see what he was making. He shrugged, and then stood aside, so that she could look. What she saw was a loose-limbed child lying on a large carved cushion, its arms flung out, its legs at unexpected angles, its hair draggled across its smooth forehead, its eyes closed in sleep. No, Ines saw, not sleep. This child was a dead child; its limbs were relaxed in death. Because it was dead, its form intimated painfully that it had once been alive. Ines said what came into her stone head. “No one will want that on any kind of monument. It’s dead.” The stonecutter did not speak. “They write on their stones,” Ines said. “ ‘He fell asleep on such a day,’ ‘She is sleeping.’ It’s not sleep.” “I am making this for myself,” he said. “I do repair work here—it is a living. But I do my own work also.” His voice was large and warm. He said, “Are you looking for any person’s grave here? Or perhaps visiting—” Ines laughed. The sound was pebbly. She said, “No, I am thinking about my own resting place. I have problems.” He offered her a seat, which she refused, and a plastic cup of coffee from a thermos, which she accepted, though she was not thirsty, to oil her voice and to make an excuse for lingering. She whispered that she would like to see more of his work, of his own work. “I am interested in stonework,” she said. “Maybe you can make me a monument.” As if in answer to this, he brought out from under his bench various wrapped objects: a heavy sphere, a pyramid, a bag of small rattling things. He moved slowly and deliberately, laying out before her a stone angel head, a collection of hands and feet, large and small. All had originally been the typical funereal carvings of the place. But he had pierced and fretted and embellished them with forms of life that were alien and contradictory yet part of them. Fingers became prisms and serpents; minuscule faces peered between toes; and the tiny bodies of mice or marmosets gripped ankles or lay around wrists like Celtic dragons. He said, “I am not supposed to appropriate things that belong here. But I take the lost ones—I look for the life in them.” “Pygmalion.” “Hardly. You like them?” “Like is the wrong word. They are alive.” He laughed. “Stones are alive where I come from.” “Where?” “I am an Icelander. I work here in the winter, and go home in the summer, when the nights are bright. I show my work—my own work—in Iceland in the summer.” She wondered dully where she would be when he was in Iceland in the summer. He said, “If you like, I will give you something. A small thing, and, if you like to live with it, I will perhaps make you that monument.” He held out to her a carved hand, which contained a basilisk and two mussel shells. When she took it from him, it chinked, stone on stone, against her awkward fingers. He heard the sound, and took hold of her knobby wrist through her garments. “I must go now.” “No, wait, wait,” he said. But she pulled away, and hurried in the dusk toward the iron gate. That evening, she understood that she might have been wrong about her immediate fate. She put the stone hand on her desk and went into the kitchen to make herself some bread and cheese. She was trembling with exertion and emotion, with fear of stony enclosure and complicated anxiety about the Icelander. As she struggled to cut the soft loaf, the bread knife slipped and sliced into her stone hand, between finger and thumb. She felt pain, which surprised her, and saw a spurt of hot blood from the wound whose depth she could not gauge. She watched the thick liquid run down the back of her hand, onto the bread, onto the table. It was ruddy-gold, dripping in long glassy strings, and where it touched the bread the bread went up in smoke, and where it touched the table it hissed and smoked and bored its hot way through the wood, then trickled, a duller red now, onto the plastic floor, which it singed in amber circles. Her veins were full of molten lava. She put out the tiny fires and threw away the burned bread. She thought, I am not just going to stand in the rain and grow moss. I may erupt. She felt panic. To turn to stone is a figure, however fantastic, for death. But to become molten lava, to contain a furnace? She went back the next day to the graveyard. It was a pale-blue wintry day, with pewter storm clouds gathering. There was the Icelander, turning a glinting sphere in his hand and squinting at it. He nodded amiably in her direction. She said, “I want to show you something.” He looked up. She said, “If anyone can bear to look, perhaps you can.” He nodded. She began to undo her fastenings, pulling down zips, unhooking the hood under her chin, shaking free her musical crystalline hair, shrugging her monumental arms out of their bulky sleeves. He stared intently. She stripped off shirt and jogging pants, trainers and vest, her mother’s silken knickers. She stood in front of him in her roughly gleaming patchwork. She looked out of her cavernous eye sockets through salty eyes at the man, whose blue eyes considered her grotesque transformation. He looked. She croaked, “Have you ever seen such a thing?” “Never,” he said. “Never.” Hot liquid rose to the sills of her eyes and clattered in pearly drops on her ruddy hematite cheeks. He stared. She thought, He is a man, and he sees me as I am, a monster. “Beautiful,” he said. “Grown, not crafted.” “You said that the stones in your country were alive. I thought you might understand what has happened to me. I do not need a monument. I have grown into one.” “I have heard of such things. In Iceland, we are matter-of-fact about the world of invisible beings. We make gates in the rocks for elves to come and go. We know that stones have their own energies. Iceland is a young country, a restless country—in our land the earth’s mantle is still being changed at great speed. We live like lichens, clinging to standing stones and rolling stones and heaving stones and rattling stones and flying stones. Our tales are full of striding stone women. We have not entirely given up the hope of seeing them. But I did not expect to meet one here, in this dead place.” She told him how she had supposed that to be petrified was to be motionless. “I was looking for a place to rest,” she said. She told him about the spurt of lava from her hand and showed him the black scar, fringed with a rime of new crystals. “I think now that Iceland is where I should go, to find somewhere to . . . stand, or stay.” “Wait for the spring,” he said, “and I will take you there. We have endless nights in the winter, and snowstorms, and the roads are impassable. In summer we have—briefly—endless days.” “Maybe it will be over—maybe I shall be . . . finished before the spring.” “I do not think so. But we will watch over it. Turn around and let me see your back.” “I have the sense that the crust is constantly thickening.” “There is an idea—for a sculptor—in every inch of it,” he said. He said that his name was Thorsteinn Hallmundursson. Over the winter and into the early spring, they constructed a friendship. Ines allowed Thorsteinn to study her ridges and clefts. He showed her samples of new stones as they sprouted in and on her body. The two she loved most were labradorite and fantomkvarts. Labradorite is dark blue, soft black, full of gleaming lights, like the aurora borealis embedded in hardness. In fantomkvarts a shadowy crystal contains other shadowy crystals, growing at angles in its transparent depths. Thorsteinn chipped and polished to bring out the lights and the angles, and in the end, as she came to trust him completely, Ines took pleasure in allowing him to decorate her gnarled fingers, to smooth the plane of her shin, to reveal the hidden lights under the polished skin of her breasts. She did not come to love the graveyard, but familiarity made her see it differently. It was a city graveyard, on which two centuries of soot had fallen. Every day fat pigeons gathered on the roof of Thorsteinn’s shelter, catching the pale sunlight on their burnished feathers, mole gray, dove gray, sealskin gray. Every day fat squirrels lolloped busily from bush to bush, their gray tails and faces tinged with ginger, their strong little claws gripping. There were magpies, and strutting crows. There was thick bright moss moving swiftly (for moss) over the stones and their carved names. Thorsteinn said that he did not like to clean it away; it was beautiful. In Iceland, he would show her mosses and lichens she could never have dreamed of. Winter became spring. The dead leaves turned dark with rain, grass pushed through them, then crocuses and snowdrops, followed by self-spread bluebells and an uncontrollable carpet of celandines—pale-gold flowers with flat green leaves, which ran over everything, headstones and gravel, bottle-green marble chips on recently dug graves, Thorsteinn’s heap of rubble. They lasted a brief time, and then the gold faded to silver, and the silver became white, transparent, a brief ghostly lace of fine veins, and then a fallen mulch of mold, inhabited by pushy tendrils and the creamy nodes of rhizomes. The death of the celandines seemed to be the signal for departure. They had discussed how this should be done. Ines had assumed that they would fly to Reykjavík, but when she came to contemplate such a journey she saw that it was impossible. Not only could she not fold her new body into the small space of a canvas bucket seat, which would likely not bear her weight. She could never pass through the security checks at the airport. If she was asked to pull back her hood, the airport staff would run screaming. Or shoot her. She did not know if she could now be killed by a bullet. Thorsteinn said that they could go by sea. They booked passage on a small trading boat. In the swell of the Atlantic, the ship nosed its way between great green-and-white walls of travelling water, in a fine salt spray. The sky changed and changed, opal and gunmetal, grass green and crimson, mussel blue and velvet black, scattered with wild starshine. Thorsteinn and Ines stood on deck whenever they could, and looked out ahead of them. Ines did not look back. She tasted the salt on her black-veined tongue, and thought of the Biblical woman who had become a pillar of salt when she looked back. She was no pillar. She was heaving and restless like the sea. When she thought of her past life, it was vague in her new mind, like cobwebs. Her mother was now flying dust in air, motes of bonemeal settling on the foam flowers in the beck where Ines had scattered her. She opened her tent of garments to the driving wind and wet. She had found her feet easily and did not feel seasick. Thorsteinn rode the deck beside her like a lion or a warhorse, smiling through his beard. She was interested in his human flesh. She found in herself a sprouting desire to take a bite out of him, his cheek or his neck, out of a mixture of affection and curiosity to see what the sensation would be like. She resisted the impulse easily enough, though she licked her teeth—razor-sharp flinty incisors, grim granite molars. She thought human thoughts and stone thoughts. The latter were slow, patchily colored, textured and extreme, both hot and cold. Her first sight of Iceland was the jagged peaks of the eastern fjords. Thorsteinn packed the two of them into a high rugged trucklike car, and they drove south, along the wild coast. They were under the influence—literally—of the great glacier Vatnajökull, the largest in Europe, Thorsteinn said, sitting easily at the wheel. They glimpsed the sheen of it from mountain passes, and then, as they came to the flatlands of the south, they saw the first glacial tongues pouring down into the plains, white and shining above the green marshes. Thorsteinn alternated between a steady silence and a kind of incantatory recitation of history, geography, time before history, myth. His country appeared to her old, when she first saw it, a primal chaos of ice, stone silt, black sand, gold mud. His stories went back easily to the first and second centuries, as though they were yesterday, and his own ancestors figured in tales of enmity and banishment as if they were uncles and kinsmen who had sat down to eat with him last year. And yet the striking thing, the decisive thing, about this landscape was that it was geologically young. The whole south coast of Iceland is still being changed—in a decade, in the twinkling of an eye—by volcanic eruptions that pour red-hot magma from mountain ridges, or spout up, boiling from under the thick-ribbed ice. They travelled on, over the great black plain of Myrdalssandur. This, Thorsteinn said, was the work of a volcano, Katla, which had erupted under a glacier, Myrdalsjökull. There is a troll-woman connected to this volcano, he told her. She was called Katla, and she was said to have hidden a kettle of molten gold, which could be seen by human eyes on one day of the year only. But those who set out to find it were troubled by false visions and strange sights—burning homesteads, slaughtered livestock—and turned back in panic. Katla was the owner of a pair of magic breeches, which made her a very fleet runner. They were said to be made from human skin. “Was she a stone woman?” Ines asked. Thorsteinn said that there was no mention of her being stone. There were trolls in Iceland who turned to stone if the sun hit them. But by no means were all of that kind. There were trolls, he said, who slept for centuries among the stones of the desert, or along the riverbeds, then stirred with an earthquake, or an eruption, into new life. “Personally,” Thorsteinn said, “I do not think you are a troll. I think you are a metamorphosis.” They came to Reykjavík, the smoky harbor. Ines was uneasy, even in this small city. Something was to happen, and it was not here, not among humans. She asked where they were going, and he said that they were going to his summer house, where he would work. “And I?” she said, grumbling. Thorsteinn stared at her, assessing and unsmiling. “I don’t know,” he said. “Neither of us can know.” They drove east, heading for the valley of Thórsmörk, Thor’s Forest, which lay inaccessibly between three glaciers, two deep rivers, and a string of dark mountains. They crossed torrents, and ground along the dirt road. Thorsteinn’s summer house was built into a hillside, walled and roofed with turf. It was roughly furnished, with a stone sink through which springwater ran from a channelled pipe in the hillside. The grassy space in front of the house looked something between a chaos of boulders and a half-formed stone circle. Ines came to see that all the stones, from the vast and cow-size to clusters of pebbles and polished singletons, were works in progress, or potential works, or works completed. They were both carved and decorated. A face peered from under a crusty overhang, one-eyed, fanged, leering. A boulder displayed a perfectly polished pair of youthful breasts, glistening in circles of golden lichen. A hunched stone woman had a fantastic garden of brilliant moss spilling from her lap and over her thighs. On closer inspection, Ines saw that jewels had been placed in crevices, and sharpened pins like medieval cloak brooches had been inserted in holes threaded in the stone surface. A dwarfish stone had tiny, carved gold hands where its ears should have been. There could be several climates in a day—bright sun, gathering storm, snowfall, great coils and blasts of wind so violent that even Thorsteinn could not stand up, though the stone woman found herself taking pleasure in standing against the turbulent air, as a surfer rides a wave. There were flowers in the early summer—saxifrages and stonecrops, lady’s bedstraw, and a profusion of golden angelica. They walked out into soft gray carpets of Cetraria islandica, the lichen that is known as Iceland moss. Reindeer food, human food, possible cancer cure, Thorsteinn said. Over a fireside supper of smoked lamb and scrambled eggs, he asked her whether she would sit for him. His face was fiery in the midnight sun. She had not looked at herself since they’d left England. She said she did not know if she differed any longer from the stones he had collected. Maybe he should simply decorate her, carve into her, when . . . She tore at the tasty lamb with her sharp teeth. She had an overwhelming need for meat, which she did not acknowledge. She ground the fibres in the mill of her jaws. She said she would be happy to do what she could. Time, too, was paradoxical in Iceland. Within the fleeting island of the summer, the daylight was sempiternal; there was no nightfall, only the endless shifts in the color of the sky—trout-dappled, mackerel-shot, turquoise, sapphire, peridot, hot transparent red, and then, in winter, flowing with the gyrating and swooping veils of the aurora borealis. Thorsteinn worked all summer to his own rhythm, which was stubborn and earthy. Ines sat on a stone bench, and occasionally did domestic things with inept fingers—hulled a few peas, scrubbed a potato, whisked a bowl of eggs. She tried reading, but her new eyes could not bring the dancing black letters to have any more meaning than the spiders and ants that scurried around her feet or mounted her stolid ankles. She preferred standing, really. Bending was harder and harder. So she stood, and stared at the hillside and the distant neb of the glacier. Some days they talked as he worked. Sometimes, for a couple of days together, they said nothing. He made many drawings. He made small images in clay, and larger ones, cobbled together from stones and glass fragments and threads of things representing the weather, which the weather then disturbed. She made solitary forays into the landscape. Once, when she returned, she saw from a great distance a standing stone that he had made, and saw that through its fantastic crust, under its tattered mantle, it was possible to see the lineaments of a beautiful woman, a woman with a carved, attentive face, looking up and out. The human likeness vanished as she came closer. She thought that he had seen her, and this made her happy. But she found it harder and harder to see him. He began to seem blurred and out of focus, not only when his human blue eye peered into her crystal one and his beard fanned in a golden cloud around the disk of his face. His very solid body looked as though it were simply a form of water vapor. She had to cup her basalt palm around her ear in order to hear his great voice, which sounded to her like the whispering of grasshoppers. When he snored at night in his wooden bed, the sound was indistinguishable from the gurgle of the water, or the prying random gusts of the wind. And at the same time she was seeing, or almost seeing, things that seemed to crowd and gesture just beyond the range of her vision. From the deck of the ship, she had seen momentary sea creatures. Dolphins had rushed glistening among the long needles of air caught in the rush of their wake. Whales had briefly humped parts of guessed-at bulks through the wrinkling of the surface. Fulmars had appeared from nowhere in the flat sky and had plummeted like falling swords through the surface, which closed over them. Now she sensed earth bubbles and earth monsters shrugging themselves into shape in the air and in the falling fosses. Fleet herds of light-footed creatures flowed around the house with the wind. Stones she stared at, as Thorsteinn worked, began to dimple and shift, like disguised moorbirds, speckled and splotched, on nests of disguised eggs, speckled and splotched, in a wilderness of stones, speckled and splotched. Lichens seemed to grow at visible speeds and form rings and coils, with triangular heads like adders. Clearest of all—almost visible—were the huge dancers, forms that humped themselves out of earth and boulders, stamped and hurtled, beckoned with strong arms and snapping fingers. After long looking, she seemed also to see that these things were walking and running, like parasites on the back of some moving beast so huge that the mountain range was only a wrinkle in its vasty hide, as it stirred in its slumber or shook itself slightly as it woke. She said to Thorsteinn in one of their economical exchanges, “There are living things here I can almost see, but not see.” “Maybe, when you can see them,” he said equably, scribbling away with charcoal, “maybe then . . .” “Do humans in Iceland,” she asked again, conscious that something was staring and listening—uncomprehending, she believed—to the scratch of her voice, “do humans turn into trolls?” “Trolls,” Thorsteinn said. “That’s a human word for them. We have a word, tryllast, which means to go mad, to go berserk. Like trolls. Always from a human perspective. Which is a bit of a precarious perspective here.” There was a long silence. Ines looked at his face as he worked, and could not focus on the eyes that studied her so intently. Whereas the hillside was alive with eyes that opened lazily within fringing mossy lashes, that stared through and past her from hollows in stones, that flashed in the light briefly and vanished again. Thorsteinn said, “There is a tale we tell of a group of poor men who went out to gather lichens for the winter. And one of them climbed higher than the others and the crag above him suddenly put out long stony arms and lifted him and carried him up the hillside. The story says that the stone was an old troll-woman. His companions were very frightened and ran home. The next year, they went there again, and he came to meet them, over the moss carpet, and he was gray like the lichens. They asked him was he happy, and he didn’t answer. They asked him what he believed in, was he a Christian, and he answered dubiously that he believed in God and Jesus. He would not go home with them, and we get the impression that they did not try very hard to persuade him. The next year, he was grayer and stood stock-still, staring. When they asked him about his beliefs, he moved his mouth in his face, but no words came. And the next year they asked again what he believed in, and he replied, laughing fiercely, ‘Trunt, trunt, og tröllin i fjöllunum.’ ” The English scholar that persisted in her said, “What does it mean?” “ ‘Trunt, trunt’ is just nonsense. It means rubbish and junk and aha and hubble-bubble, that sort of thing—I don’t know an English expression that will do as a translation. ‘Trunt, trunt, and the trolls in the fells.’ ” “It has a good rhythm.” “Indeed it does.” “I am afraid, Thorsteinn.” He put his bear arm around the knobs and flinty edges where her shoulders had been. It felt to her lighter than cobweb. “They call me,” she said in a whisper. “Do you hear them?” “No. But I know they call.” “They dance. At first it looked ugly, their rushing and stamping. But now—now I am also afraid that I can’t . . . join the circle.” She tried to be precise. “I still don’t exactly see them. But I do see their dancing, the furious form of it.” Thorsteinn said, “You will see them, when the time comes. I do believe you will.” As the autumn drew in she grew restless. She had planted small gardens in the crevices of her body, trailing grasses, liverworts. Creatures ran over her—insects first, a stone-colored butterfly, indistinguishable from her speckled breast, foraging ants, a millipede. There were even fine red worms, the color of raw meat, which burrowed unhindered. She began to walk more, taking these things with her. In September, they had several days of driving rain, frost was thick on the turf roof, the glacial rivers swelled and boiled, and ice came down them in clumps and blocks, forming where the spray lay on the vegetation. Thorsteinn said that in a very little time it would be unsafe to stay. He watched her brows contract over the glittering eyes in their hollow caves. “I can’t go back with you.” “You can. You are welcome to come with me.” “You know I must stay. You have always known. I am simply gathering up courage.” When the day came, it brought one of those Icelandic winds that howl across the earth, carrying away all unsecured objects and creatures, including men if they have no pole to clutch, or shelter built into the rock. Birds can make no way in such weather; they are blown back and broken. Snow and ice and hurtling cloud are in and on the wind, mixed with moving earth and water and odd wreaths of steam gathered from geysers. Thorsteinn went into his house and held on to the doorpost. Ines began to go with him, and then turned away, looking up the mountainside, standing easily in the furious breakers of the moving air. She lifted a monumental arm and gestured toward the fells and then to her eyes. Nothing could be heard in this wailing racket, but he understood what she was signalling: now she saw them. He nodded his head—he needed his arms to hang on to the doorpost. He looked up the mountain and saw not what she now, no doubt, saw clearly but figures, spinning and bowing in a rapid dance on huge, lithe, stony legs, beckoning with expansive gestures, flinging their great arms wide in invitation. The woman in his stone garden took a breath—he saw her quiver—and essayed a few awkward dance steps, a sweep of an arm, of both arms. He heard her laughter in the wind. She jigged a little, as though gathering momentum, and then began a dancing run into the blizzard. He heard a stone voice, shouting and singing, “Trunt, trunt, og tröllin i fjöllunum.” He went in, and closed his door against the weather, and began to pack. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
In Defiance of Club Rules	In defiance of club rules, Robert took to going out on the river alone. It had become difficult to fit in with other people’s plans. Arthur’s wife was about to give birth, and this hitherto loyal friend now had no time. To go on the group outings would mean hanging around for hours waiting for others to arrive and argue about what they were going to do and where. Instead, after work, Robert drove straight to the club, pulled his kayak down from the rack, and changed into his wetsuit. This was January. There was even a patch of ice in the slacker shallows. Immediately, he noticed that going out alone changed his state of mind. He was doubly anxious sorting out his kit as he got into the boat. He checked and re-checked that his life jacket was properly buckled. Sitting on the muddy bank, he ran his fingers around the cockpit at least three or four times before feeling reassured that the spray deck was secure. Did he have the paddle the right way round? He placed his hands on either side of the boat and pushed off. Just upstream of the club, the boys who competed in slaloms were running the gates beneath the so-called New Bridge in their long fibreglass boats. Robert wasn’t interested in competing with anyone. The only thing he wanted to measure himself against was the river. He had a short plastic white-water kayak. And the first thing he did was paddle it to the middle of the river and turn upside down. The icy water gripped his head. It was dark and muddy. This, as far as Robert was concerned, was the defining experience of kayaking. You were alone, unseeing, unhearing. You couldn’t breathe. You had a handful of seconds to return yourself to the normal world. Robert counted to at least three before coming up. It was important not to concede to the darkness that you were afraid. I am not in a panic or a hurry, he told himself. He set up his paddle carefully and rolled up. The water streamed off him. There was the shock of the breeze on his face, then a rapid warming. He was master of the river. He set off downstream toward the railway bridge. Often, to loosen up, he paddled backward, which gave him a view of the center of town. The high red brick embankment curved away to the left. There were pretty stone towers from centuries before, steep hills rising to walls and battlements, and, on a clear day, the mountains were just visible in sharp relief behind. The almost daily experience of this view reconciled Robert to his home town and induced a mood of acceptance and calm. For some years now, since even before his father’s death, he had been increasingly disaffected with the place. He had been passed over for promotion at work. The area he lived in had been invaded by immigrants. Drug addicts left their needles in the gutters. He had seen his mother grow fearful and bitter. You mustn’t go out in the boat on your own, she told him. You are all I have in the world now. The river is safer than the streets, Robert replied. After the bridge where the ring road passed, marking the end of the town proper, he was obliged to turn and paddle forward. The river flowed a little faster now. The bank was untended, snagged with broken branches, bits of rubble, rusted iron. Occasionally the paddle scraped a block of cement. Sometimes there were fishermen, usually old. The man who haunted the right bank just downstream of the bridge must have been a thalidomide case. He gestured with a shrunken arm to show Robert where his line was. Robert steered clear. He couldn’t imagine eating the fish from this river. On the left bank, truck drivers in the slow traffic were high enough in their cabs to watch him over the parapet. He imagined them envying his freedom. Some waved. Sometimes the lovers sitting on the steps halfway along would break off their kisses. If he was in a good mood, he would capsize and roll up for them. Exhibitionist! his fiancée teased. He and Stella had been together for almost ten years now. Robert needs the river, she confided to their friends. He has so much frustrated energy. Show your biceps, Rob, she said. Neither of them was in a hurry to marry. An uneasy inertia had overtaken Robert’s life. He was angry without even being aware of it. Under the railway bridge, the club’s rule about not going out alone made sense. But this was the only place Robert wanted to be. Carrying four tracks, the bridge was built as a viaduct, its five tall arches channelling the wide river into five narrow streams, with thick walls of masonry in between. At the same time, the water level fell almost three feet, so that with the sudden narrowing, plus the dive, the placid surface was transformed, for the twenty yards or so that it took to get through the tunnels of the arches, into a wild rush. This was most pronounced beneath the second arch from the right, where the drop coincided exactly with the beginning of the tunnel. Here, a strong V-shaped wave formed beneath the nineteenth-century masonry, powerful and irregular. At either side of the wave, great blocks of stone, placed just above water level to protect the bridge’s stanchions, allowed for the formation of narrow lateral eddies of escape and refuge. After the frothing crest of the big wave, the stream swirled through the long arch in a tumultuous chain of lesser waves before tumbling out into a broad boiling expanse beyond, where sudden whirlpools could suck the boat under, front or back, before you had time to think. There were all kinds of games to play here. When the water was high, the stream throbbed beneath the kayak. Pointing downward into the wave, face upstream, you had a fantastic impression of speed. The river was pouring onto you, and you had to fight like mad to hold your position, curving to left and right, braking with a low brace when the nose sank in the trough, paddling hard on the crest when the water threatened to toss you out. Riding this wave, forced into a fury of concentration after his dull hours at the office, Robert had the exhilarating sensation of being right at the heart of life, in the secret pulse of the river, yet at the same time wonderfully static, in control. Sometimes a train thundered above as he surfed, packing his brain with noise and excitement. But it was hard to stay on the wave for more than thirty or forty seconds at a time. Perhaps you exposed a little too much edge on one side or the other, or you let the bow sink too deep into the trough, or the wave itself suddenly changed with a hiccup in the current. Then all of a sudden you were blown off and careering down the wild water behind it. Often the fight to stay on the crest led to a capsize. Then you had to roll up in earnest. The swift current grabbed your paddle beneath the water. It was hard to drag it forward to the set-up position. Toward the end of the bridge on the left, there was a rock that might catch your helmet. Altogether, there were seven bouncy waves to get through before the stream spread out and steadied. Sometimes the best thing to do was just wait till you were past the roller coaster, then come up in the muddled water beyond. It irritated Robert when it took him two, or even three, tries to roll up. He knew that one day he would fail and have to take a swim. He would have to save himself, his boat, and his paddle all on his own. Upright, he fought his way back up the narrow eddy along the inside of the arch and tackled the wave again. After half an hour, he might take a break. He got out of the boat below the bridge and sat on the blocks of stone that protected its masonry. There was a strong river smell here. Occasionally he saw a rat hurrying through the sodden vegetation. Men loading trucks behind a factory on the right bank might turn to watch. Robert nodded to them. He began to like going out on his own so much that he felt vaguely annoyed, in March and April, when he arrived at the bridge to find some of his old companions already there, riding the wave, shouting Whoa! and Alrighty! They shook their heads at the idea of his being there alone. Sometimes, they said, a piece of debris could form a strainer under the water. Upside down, you might get tangled in a branch that had jammed in the rocks. The other canoe-club members who played at the bridge drove down in their cars, unloaded their kayaks, had a good time, keeping careful watch on one another, loaded up again, and drove back. They didn’t like the long, dull paddle from the clubhouse or, above all, the fact that to get home you had to carry your boat upstream of the bridge and then fight the current for almost a mile. On the other hand, there was a risk in driving down; on two or three occasions, club members’ cars had been broken into while they were paddling. The bank beyond the factory was quite isolated, and there was a Gypsy camp on the wasteland a few hundred yards farther on. Robert preferred to paddle back to the club. It kept him fit. So, once he decided he’d had enough, he pulled his boat out, dragged it up the high bank, and walked it upstream beyond the drop. It wasn’t unusual, on this walk, for him to find a couple of unshaven young men sitting around smoking on the bank beneath the first arch of the bridge, with a fire lit perhaps, their women cross-legged in shawls and shabby dresses, the inevitable baby at their breasts. Sometimes Robert came across a pair of teen-agers in sleeping bags, surrounded by sachets and needles. He was careful where he trod in his thin rubber kayak shoes. When spring turned to summer and the weather grew warmer, a group of Moroccans would often come down to the bank and sit and smoke under the bridge and sometimes bathe in exactly the place where Robert pulled his boat up on the bank. It was really the only place where you could get out of the water easily. Robert never spoke to them. He looked away. Out of the water, his legs stiff from being jammed against the footrests, carrying the heavy kayak on his shoulder, he felt vulnerable. This was a lawless place. There were all kinds of foul smells now that the weather had turned. Without wanting to be racist, Robert intensely disliked Gypsies. They carry knives, he thought. They don’t clear up their litter. But farther upstream, where he relaunched, there were a couple of small gardens that backed onto the river and often he saw a pretty mother playing with her young daughter there. Then Robert said hello, and explained to the little girl over the garden wall how the spray deck worked. Goddam druggies, the woman said, nodding toward the bridge. The police never bother them. Robert shrugged. He got into the boat on the bank and let it slide the ten feet down the steep slope into the water. The bow plunged deep, then reared up. The girl cheered and clapped. Paddling back, he had to keep tight to the embankment, out of the current. Sometimes there were strange, blue-and-yellow birds nesting in the bushes that had burst out of the old brickwork, and on a mud bank just after the bridge that carried the ring road there were always geese and ducks. Once, Robert surprised a troupe of ducklings. They broke right and left in panic. Tiny flies swarmed over the mud and around his face. He reached forward with the paddle, torso swaying in a strong rhythmical stroke. The mother duck squawked and flapped. It wasn’t clear to Robert why he hadn’t married Stella yet, why he wasn’t having a family, like his friend Arthur. Sometimes he and Stella used his member’s key to get into the canoe club at night and made love on the floor in the changing room. Lying in the damp dark, with the river flowing by outside, they told themselves they liked this better than finding each other in a soft double bed every night. Mid-June, the river rose dramatically as the snow melted in the mountains and rushed down to the plain. This was the time to ride the wave. But now there were more and more riffraff enjoying the deep cool beneath the bridge. It was infuriating that the one place in the city Robert loved should be infested like this. One scorching day, three Slavic-looking men were standing on the rocks by the masonry of the second stanchion, right near the wave. They must have waded over from the bank under the first arch where the stream was shallow, then worked their way around the rocks to the second. The men smoked and shouted, and one, wearing only soaking underpants, with a mobile phone in his hand, wanted to speak to Robert. He was laughing, gesturing, stout and mustached. From the signs he made, it seemed that he wanted Robert to lend him his boat, or at least his life jacket for a swim. Robert shook his head. He didn’t understand their language. The men were passing around a bottle of something transparent. The current was dangerous. They waved the bottle. Did he want to try? Looking up from the water, Robert shook his head. The man seemed to want to take a photo of him with his mobile phone. He was a fat, heavy fellow, doubtless drunk. He kept leaning forward, grinning behind his mustache, pointing the phone. Robert decided to move to a different arch. The central passage of the viaduct was just a quick cluttered rapid with no eddies at the side. All you could do here was push the kayak under a certain rock near the middle, where the stream poured over so hard that the boat would be suddenly sucked in and turned up more or less vertically on its nose. It was while Robert was approaching this place that he saw something curious. It was trapped on a rock a little way up the rapid. At first he didn’t understand. It was grayish and almost round. It was a bone. Presumably an animal’s bone. He got closer, forcing the boat upstream from one small eddy to the next. The thing was jammed between two rocks and water was trickling through it. Now he realized that it was a human skull. Robert held his kayak steady in the small churn of disturbance behind a half-submerged stone. The skull lay on one side. The jaw was missing. But it clearly was a skull. The water was passing through an eye socket. Though he couldn’t have said why, it seemed important to Robert to retrieve it. The position was difficult. The skull was in front of him and to his right, just beyond reach. The water was powerful and cluttered with debris. Leaning the boat onto the rock beside him, unsteady in the line between eddy and stream, Robert raised his paddle in his right hand and swung it at the skull. On the third attempt, he dislodged it. It bounced on the rock below and into the water a good yard away. Switching his paddle to the other hand, he lunged out and grabbed at it. His fingers found it just as the boat capsized. Here was a situation unprovided for in all the books he had read on kayaking. He was upside down in a swirl of water, helmet scraping on the rocks, with a skull in one hand and his paddle only loosely held in the other. If he took hold of the paddle to roll the kayak upright, he would have to let go of the skull. And he wanted to keep it. He wanted to take it to the authorities. There was some mystery behind it, some missing person. Underwater, Robert waited a second, until he felt that the boat had been flushed clear of the rocks and the arch. You always have more air than you think. That is a commonplace. He wasn’t afraid. Encumbered by skull and paddle, he tried to force his body into the position from which, theoretically, with a wave of the arms, a toss of the head, and a snap of the hips, he could roll upright even without the paddle. Sure enough, his head came up, but only enough for him to get a gasp of air. He had never been good at doing it this way. He tried again and just caught a glimpse of the Slavs by the first stanchion leaning out and shouting, as they watched the capsized kayak float out into the current downstream of the bridge. One more try, he thought. He sat still, upside down in the churn of water; he leaned forward; he stretched his arms—still holding skull and paddle—toward the gloomy light of the surface to his left. Then he threw his arms wide, in the proper rotary motion. This time he didn’t even get his head up. He was tired. Very rapidly, he let go of the paddle, pulled the release tab on the spray deck, and popped out. Immediately, his face was in bright sunshine in the whirlpools after the bridge. With his free hand, he flipped the boat upright again, tossed the skull into the cockpit, and looked around for his paddle. It was only a couple of yards off. One hand on the back of the boat, he launched into a determined sidestroke. All was well. But now there was a shout right beside him. The kayak tipped as a big hand grasped the cockpit. One of the Slavs, it seemed, had jumped in. Robert knew the river here well enough. Although to the unpracticed eye it might seem one broad, uniform meander, there were, in fact, two fast channels, one on each side, and right across the middle, fifty yards down from the bridge, a great shale bank that would be exposed when the river was low. If you steered carefully as you came through the central arch, it was only a short while before you were in water little more than knee deep. It’s O.K., he shouted to the wild foreign face now propped on the deck. Clearly the idiot had had no idea how cold full immersion would be. His teeth were chattering. This was snow water. He didn’t have a wetsuit or life jacket. O.K., O.K. Take it easy. Wait. Just wait. O.K., now! Already Robert could touch. He waited till the water was a just a little shallower and stood up, grabbing boat and paddle as the current tried to tug them on. Stumbling on the stones, the Slav yelled and pointed. He retched, then started yelling again. Both his friends were in the water, too, but they were flailing in the main stream, swirling rapidly away along the right bank. Getting the man beside him to steady the boat, Robert managed to climb back in—something he always found difficult in moving water—and, leaving the Slav safe in the shallows, headed for the others. He always kept a sling around his waist and a throw rope in the boat beside his seat. He caught up with one man about a hundred yards down. He was panicking. Robert clipped the sling to the kayak’s stern and told him to hold it. The man thrashed about, almost pulling the boat over. He couldn’t understand the simplest of instructions. He was shrieking. There were gaps in his teeth. His face was white, ugly, and terrified. With a furious effort, Robert paddled him to the side, but the bank was high here and the water was rushing deep against the smooth wall. It was another hundred yards or so before there was anything safe to climb onto. Then he went to look for the third man. Where had he gone? Only now did it dawn on Robert what had happened. They had thought that he was in serious difficulty. Drunk, and quite probably stupid, certainly inexperienced, they hadn’t hesitated to leap to his aid, diving into the stream by the second arch right where the current was strongest. It was madness. Robert paddled fast with the stream. The man he was looking for was the fat fellow with the mobile. Presumably, he had left his phone on the rocks. But Robert wasn’t familiar with the river down here. All he knew was that the faint roar he could hear in the distance was the dam—none of the kayakers came this far—and that it was crucial to get out before it, otherwise the current would pull him down into the sluice and the filter. He did paddle fast. He was determined to find the man. Only a hundred yards above the dam, he turned upstream and ferry-glided from side to side across the current in case the swimmer had fallen behind him. He had a clear image of the fat fellow with the black mustache leaning over the rocks beneath the viaduct, pointing his mobile phone, shouting, beckoning, offering him the liquor. It was just the sort of unruly vitality that had always bothered Robert. What a fool! He cruised back and forth for a good half hour, at what he judged was the last safe position, but the whole business had tired him and he needed to be sure that he could get out well above the dam. Eventually, he found a place on the left bank, climbed the high rocks, and hauled the boat up after him with his sling. The skull banged about in the bottom. He had already forgotten it. At once he went to the police. Stella thought him heroic. After some days, the police came to the conclusion that the skull was that of a prostitute who had been missing for more than a year. They were unable to trace the two Slavs whom Robert had saved, but the corpse of the third was picked up in the filter across the sluice of the dam. His mobile had disappeared from the rocks beneath the bridge. Why on earth did they jump in? Robert kept repeating on the two occasions he was questioned. You were alone, the policeman said. They thought you were in trouble. But I didn’t even know them or anything. I didn’t ask to be rescued. The policeman shrugged. People imagine they can help, he said. Robert’s mother seized on the drama to beg him not to go down to the viaduct again. Promise me, she said. She hugged him tight to her thin shoulders. Promise me you’ll stop now. I’ve got nobody else in the world. She was a determined old woman. Robert solemnly promised. But Stella was angry. What will you do, then? she demanded. Her eyes burned. How will you keep fit? You’re so goddam moody when you can’t get out. Robert stared at her. I’ll go anyway, he said. Mother will never know. So most evenings, in defiance of club rules, Robert still pulls his kayak off the rack and paddles downriver to play the wave beneath the viaduct on his own. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Surrogate	Credit Photograph by Baldomero Fernandez. When I was twenty, I fell in love with one of the lecturers at my college. I know that this is a very ordinary thing to do. And I know now that lecturers, when they notice yet another smitten girl-child traipsing moonily around after them, simply sigh and feel anxious. They feel anxious and all the other things you would expect, too: flattered and confirmed and a little bit stimulated. His name was Patrick Hammett, and he taught courses on Shakespeare, seventeenth-century poetry, and critical theory. I took all his classes; I made him my interpreter of the whole world. Patrick was tall, with rather bowed shoulders; he was hollowly thin except for a small soft beer belly nestled in the stretched cloth of his T-shirt above his belt. He wore his thick black hair down to his shoulders, tucked behind his ears. He used gold-rimmed glasses to read but took them off when he was talking, swung them in his fingers, and sometimes dropped them; without the glasses, his eyes were deep-set and squinted slightly. In a crowd, in a club, you wouldn’t have picked him out as particularly good-looking. But in the lecture room, sitting with us in the democratic circle of chairs that he insisted upon, his looks were a power, a force that I felt physically, like velvet against my skin. I loved the whitened pressure points that his glasses left on the bridge of his thin crooked nose. I loved the big nervous hands he was always waving in the air, gesturing uncontrollably as he spoke. Of course I didn’t have a chance with him. Who was I? I wasn’t anybody. I wasn’t even one of the cleverest students in his classes. I wasn’t an absolutely average student, either; I was aware that I had a quirky way of seeing things, which sometimes came out as insight and sometimes just left everyone looking blank. Patrick encouraged me. Once, he reminded the class of something I’d said. “You remember the point that Carla made in last week’s seminar?” Another time, after I’d made some remark about freedom of choice in “Much Ado About Nothing,” he said, “That’s very well expressed, Carla. I couldn’t have put that more eloquently myself.” This made me very happy. But I didn’t delude myself. I wasn’t the kind of student who would get a first-class mark. When I tried to put my thoughts down in writing, the dart of intuition that had been clear and sharp when it flew into my mind got tangled in something muffling and clumsy. And Patrick’s occasional surprise at my penetration didn’t mean that he had singled me out. I didn’t really exist for him outside that circle of chairs in the lecture room. In his seventeenth-century-poetry seminar he read us “The Exequy,” by Henry King: Dear loss! Since thy untimely fate My task hath been to meditate On thee, on thee: thou art the book, The library whereon I look Though almost blind. . . . ’Tis true, with shame and grief I yield, Thou like the Vann first took’st the field, And gotten hast the victory In this adventuring to dy Before me, whose more years might crave A just precedence in the grave. But heark! My Pulse like a soft Drum Beats my approach, tells Thee I come; And slow howere my marches be, I shall at last sit down by Thee. I can’t adequately express the effect this poem had on me then. I don’t remember now what season of the year it was, but I do remember that the fluorescent lights in the lecture room were on in the middle of the day because the sky was so dark outside, navy-blue clouds pressing close to the earth like an artificial ceiling. Little gouts of rain were spitting against the window, and in the gently sloping field outside (the campus was built up around an eighteenth-century house on an estate farmed by the Duchy of Cornwall) the bullocks, instead of lying down as they should have done with rain coming, were jostling uneasily and heaving up against the fence and clambering onto one another’s backs. When I look at the poem now, I see that it is the lament of a much older man for a young wife snatched away by death, and that it depends upon a confidence in the resurrection of the body on Judgment Day. I don’t know anything about those things. But at the time I felt that the words of the poem were so immediate and relevant that they spoke to me not just through my mind but through my body. I could hear that Drum; its beating came right up out of the floor of the classroom and shook me through the soles of my feet. I made one of those remarks that didn’t come out well, and nobody took much notice of it. “He longs for her and she isn’t there,” I said. It sounded too obvious to need stating. I’d wanted to use the word “sexual” (we were trained to see sexual implications everywhere, and surely in this case I would have been right), but I couldn’t bring myself to be the first to say it. Patrick wanted us to talk about the metaphor of the beloved object as text (“thou art the book, / The library whereon I look”). For me, the text was Patrick. All the passion, the concentration of the poem I attributed to him. It became my intimation of the pulse of his life, from which I was shut out. He was only six or seven years older than we were, but his life seemed to be made of different stuff than the lives I was familiar with. As far as I knew, he wasn’t married or living with anyone. Someone said that he’d once had a relationship with a student, although this was against the rules. That didn’t make me any more hopeful. She had probably been one of the clever ones. She had probably been beautiful. I didn’t think I was. My looks—I was small and blond with eyes that made the kids at school call me Frogface—were like the quirky things I said in class. Good on a good day. I dreamed about him all the time. I don’t mean sleeping dreams, although sometimes he was in those as well. Too many of my waking hours were spent fantasizing scenes in which Patrick and I somehow met outside the classroom and our relationship developed out of distant acquaintance into passionate amour. I was very exacting as the author and director of these scenes. Nothing could happen in them that was absurdly improbable or out of character. Patrick was never allowed, for example, to tell me that he had always loved me, that he had been fascinated by me from the moment I first walked into the lecture room. The scene could begin with no more than his friendly appreciation of an interested student, a teacherly investment in my intellectual development. He might at most be allowed a little stir of vanity at the depth and earnestness of my response to him. Still, even given these constraints, the journey from the plausible encounter to the moment when he reached out for me could be travelled in a thousand different ways. (Even in my fantasies I didn’t dare reach out for him, in case he turned me down.) He had to be surprised out of his position of friendly neutrality and into a dawning, uneasy recognition of his growing attraction to me, an attraction that he perhaps couldn’t quite rationally account for. The transformation could be precipitated in various ways; these were the only extravagance I allowed myself. Sometimes we would be accidentally stranded by a breakdown in the middle of nowhere, after he’d innocently offered me a ride home from college. Or we’d be caught by a freak storm when stopping by the cottage of a friend of his to pick up some books. Or he would have to take refuge in my room one night after being beaten up by muggers and left bleeding in the road just as I was on my way home. But my favorite scene took place somewhere I don’t think I’ve ever actually been. I imagined a path through a green meadow. I needed to be clear in my mind about exactly how we’d got there. Sometimes it was in the aftermath of another encounter nearer home. (“Why don’t you come for a walk next weekend, and I’ll show you where Coleridge is supposed to have started writing ‘The Ancient Mariner’?”) Or a whole group of us had been out on a college field trip and Patrick and I, while talking, had got separated from the rest. (This was tricky to imagine, since the only trip he ever came on was to the theatre at Stratford.) Or he had employed me to do some research over the holidays and then on impulse said he’d like to buy me tea in the country as a reward. We’d walk down the grassy path until we reached a gate, which opened into a wood beyond. At the threshold of the wood the light changed from broad sunshine to a secretive and dappled shade. There were rustlings among the fallen leaves that were spread like a carpet under the trees. It was a place I’d invented for a transition, for the passage over from my life to his, from his to mine. The gate was made of old gray wood washed silvery by the rain; it swung crookedly on rusting hinges. He held it open for me, or I climbed over it and he helped me down. Something in the change of light stilled us, made us pause; the wood with its pillarlike tree trunks and its tracery of branches was a cathedral. He was still supporting my weight, or I was cast up against him in some way as I came through the gate or passed him on the narrow path. I could feel the heat of his body under the ragged gray wool of the sweater he often wore. I could only really sustain the stories up to this point. After that, his face came closer, he put his arms around me, there was kissing, there was a pressing together, and the narrative failed—it lost its sequence. I could—and did—imagine plenty of what happened after, but not in any clear way. It came in a hallucinated muddle that I would try to disentangle. I’d return again and again to the gate, the threshold, the movement with which he reached across the distance between us. I’d start again from there. But it was never any good. The dream beyond that point was a loop of film repeating itself. Exhausting, after a while. Dispiriting. Because in truth it was nothing at all. In my second year I was so short of money that I got a job working three evenings a week at a pub in town. It must have been an old pub once, with lots of twisty little rooms winding around the different levels, but the walls had been knocked down and it was now one huge, cavernous space, low-ceilinged and gloomy. There were still confusing steps up and down in places, and the floor changed from flagstone to wood to carpet; drunks and women in heels sometimes tripped and spilled their beer. Video games flashing ruby- and emerald-colored lights stood against the walls. The place didn’t have much atmosphere. It was more fashionable to go to one of the new bars with long pine tables and stainless-steel counters, where food was served; or to one of the quaint old pubs that had kept their little rooms and served real ale. Big parties came to my pub because there was usually room to seat them. And men came in, to watch football on the TV screens, the kind of men who didn’t want roasted vegetables in pitas or real ale. I’d worked in nicer pubs. When I lived at home I’d worked in our local, where the old-timers expected you to start pulling their pints the moment they pushed open the door. I didn’t mind the anonymity of this place. I was often on with temporary staff I didn’t know, and that meant I didn’t have to talk too much. If we weren’t busy, I just kept order behind the bar. I made sure that the glasses were clean, the lemons sliced, the drip trays emptied, the bottles in the optics replaced as soon as they ran out, the ice bucket filled. While I was taking care of all this I forgot that I was a student. I rarely saw anyone from the college in there, students or staff. But one night, when I came back from asking the landlord to change a barrel, I thought for a moment that I saw Patrick. A man with the same long narrow build and thick shoulder-length hair was standing with his back to the bar, a pint of lager in one hand, looking up at the TV screen. Although this was exactly the sort of plausible scenario I was always dreaming up to bring us together, in reality I didn’t want it to be him. I panicked. I didn’t think I could cope with my two roles at once—competent barmaid and besotted student—and I had no idea how to respond when he turned around and recognized me. But the bloke, when he turned around, wasn’t Patrick, though he did look rather like him. Rather like him but quite different. He had the same crooked nose—more exaggerated, even—and the same close-set eyes that were revealed when Patrick took his glasses off. But he didn’t wear glasses. He didn’t have any of Patrick’s concentrated excitement. When he asked for a pint of Stella, his accent was ordinary, not like Patrick’s educated one. When I smiled at him and made some comment about the football match, he blushed, and I guessed that he was shy, and maybe not very clever. He probably would have liked to keep the conversation going, but he couldn’t think of what to say to me. And I got a certain pleasure out of the situation. I could play at talking to Patrick, without its really mattering. I made small talk as I handed the man his change and stayed with him until I was called away to serve someone else. When he left the pub, fifteen minutes later, he put his glass on the bar and said goodbye to me in such a way that I knew he’d planned it in advance, hoping that I’d be looking in his direction. Then I forgot all about him. I didn’t expect to see him again. But a week later he was back, and after that it was a regular thing. He came with his friends, and I think he would have come regardless of me—they were just a gang who met up often and were going through a phase of drinking in this particular pub—but he did remember me, and looked for me when he came in the door, and blushed if I served him. When his friends saw us chatting together they teased him. They made him go to the bar for every round, and then they whistled and laughed to encourage him. “Go on, ask her,” they said, meaning me to hear. “Fuck off,” he said, red-faced, pretending to be busy with the first mouthful of his pint. Every time I saw him I’d feel the same shock at his likeness to Patrick. People come in physical types; I’ve seen girls I immediately recognized as belonging to the same type as me: small and round with these deep-lidded frog eyes. There are dark ones and blond ones, but the type is as unmistakable as if we belonged to the same subspecies. And, even though there were specific points on which they didn’t match, this man and Patrick had the same overall effect. The man in the pub was blurred where Patrick was definite. His skin was coarser. His hair wasn’t as black and straight—it was dark brown, with honey-brown curling bits in it. He was a little shorter than Patrick, but more muscular, as if he did physical work. He told me that he was a gas engineer, which wasn’t all that physical, but presumably more strenuous than lecturing on the literature of the Early Modern period. He had a little beer belly like Patrick’s. His jeans hung on his narrow hips in the same way. Actually—oddly, considering how unalike their lives and personalities were—they even dressed the same. They wore tight V-necked sweaters over jeans, without a shirt. They wore black T-shirts with those little cap sleeves. I suppose they had both found the styles that suited them. And soon something began that I’m shocked to think of now. Something that I initiated. It would never have occurred to him even to speak to me, beyond ordering his drinks, if I hadn’t started it. I didn’t just flirt with him. I went all out to make things go further. I knew that this was supposed to be a risky and demeaning strategy for a girl; it certainly wasn’t something I’d ever done before. But with him I was safe because it didn’t matter. It honestly wouldn’t have mattered to me if he’d stopped coming to the pub and I’d never seen him again. So it could do no harm to play my game. If I wasn’t busy I’d watch him from my vantage point behind the bar. Sooner or later he’d become aware of this and look up from where he stood or sat with his mates, and then I’d smile at him, a long heated-up smile, and he would redden and look away again, smiling, too. When he came to the bar I rushed to serve him, even if one of the other barmaids was closer. He bought me drinks, and I clinked glasses with him and asked him about himself. When I gave him his change I made sure that our hands touched. I don’t think that anything like this had happened to him before. He wasn’t a complete innocent. (I found out that he’d been engaged to someone and she had broken up with him a few months before.) But he wasn’t used to being pursued by a stranger. The shock of his looking so much like Patrick never completely left me. On the one hand, I felt I had the measure of the man he was—pleasant and rather dull. I knew that he and his friends spent the evening talking about cars and football and teased each other in the explosive foot-shuffling, flaring-up way I remembered from the boys at school; from time to time, they’d run out of things to say to one another and sit in silence, taking mouthfuls of their beer. On the other hand, his appearance flashed a promise to me; it was as if Patrick’s qualities were locked up inside him somewhere, if only I could find the key to release them. Eventually I got him to the point where he couldn’t help but ask me if he could give me a lift home from work. I felt embarrassed then, as if my game had gone too far. He waited for me while we cleared up, and reassured me that he’d had only one pint and was all right to drive, and then he led me proudly around the corner to his car, which looked very shiny under the street lamps. I hoped that he hadn’t cleaned it for my benefit. I think he felt more confident about his car than about himself, but the impression was wasted on me—I couldn’t tell one type of car from another. While he was driving me to the house I shared with some other students, we both went shy. I nervously asked him about his work, and he told me that he had worked for British Gas for several years and then set up his own business with a friend. For tax reasons, they’d recently had to split the business in two, one side dealing with boilers and central-heating systems and the other with gas appliances, although in effect they still worked together. He explained this to me in some detail, and I was bored. I was hoping that none of my housemates would be around when I asked him in for coffee, and they weren’t. It was always better when he wasn’t talking. When he was silent I could recover the illusion I was pursuing. I barely talked to him about myself—about college, about my classes, about my plans. I barely talked to him at all. I turned on my lamp, which had a pink bulb, so that the room was dim. I kissed him, I touched him, I undid his clothes, I made all the first moves. I don’t think he was quite comfortable with the speed at which these things happened. He was a nice chap—he would have preferred to take things slowly. He would have preferred to have me as his proper girlfriend. On the other hand, he was a man; he didn’t turn me down. Perhaps he felt a little ashamed of himself afterward. Or ashamed of me, more likely. I don’t remember him staying long in my room, I don’t remember watching him while he dressed to go home. I think he shared a flat with his brother and another bloke, but I never went there. We didn’t “go out” together. We only ever did one thing together. For a couple of months, before I quit my job at the pub and went home for the summer, we did that every week. Of course I was pretending the whole time that I was with Patrick, that it was Patrick who was making love to me. Only the pretense was never complete. Even in the dim light from the pink bulb, even if I half closed my eyes and didn’t look directly at him, even when I was mixing together in my mind the physical reality of our bodies grappling and one of my stories about Patrick, the knowledge that he wasn’t Patrick seeped irresistibly in. This wasn’t the real thing. It was only a secondhand enactment of love. I have forgotten to give his name. His name was Dave. Only a few years have passed, but a lot has happened since then. These are the years when a lot happens, when your life lurches across crucial transitions like a train hurtling across points at speed. It doesn’t always feel that way at the time. At the time, you sometimes feel that life has slowed down to a point of frozen stillness. There’s no tedium like the tedium of twenty. But all the while you are in fact flying fast into a future that has already been decided by a couple of accidental encounters or scraps of dreams. In the end, Patrick Hammett reached out for me. Unbelievably, what he actually said when he did it was that he had always loved me, he had been fascinated by me from the moment I first walked into the lecture room. Or words to that effect. Which just goes to show that you mustn’t trust a scrupulous realism, that sometimes sloppy fantasy comes closer to the true state of things. I became the person it had been unimaginable for me to be: Patrick’s girlfriend, Patrick’s wife. We had to wait until I had finished his classes before we could tell anyone about this, and those months were the most wonderful months, the secret months, when I had to sit in his classroom and engage in discussion as usual, as if there were nothing going on between us. I love Patrick. I think we’re well matched. But of course I’m not infatuated with him anymore. You can’t go on being infatuated with someone you share toothpaste with, whose crusty inside-out balls of socks you have to put in the washing machine. I still count on his intelligence and his articulate way of speaking. But I get irritated at the way he gulps in a breath of air just before he pours out some hoarded-up information, and at the way he guides conversations around to an opportunity for him to be surprised at someone else’s ignorance. When he’s holding forth in an argument he fills any gaps while he searches for words with a loud “um,” so that no one else has a chance to break in with a different point of view. I never told Patrick about Dave. And I’ve never seen him since. I once looked up gas engineers in the Yellow Pages and found a company that might have been his. I couldn’t look him up in the residential phone book because I never knew his last name. In my first few months with Patrick, if I ever thought about Dave I was just embarrassed at what I’d done. But then the idea of him began to preoccupy me, like an unsolved mystery. Why had he lent himself so unquestioningly, so pliably, to my fantasy? How could he have explained to himself what was happening between us? I try to remember the details of our lovemaking and I can’t. I can hardly believe that we were pressed naked against each other again and again. I feel as if I had wasted an opportunity, longing the whole time for him to be someone else. What was he feeling when he didn’t speak? There’s no real equivalence between my situation now and my situation then. I’m happily married to Patrick and given the chance would not even seriously consider throwing in my luck with a stranger I have nothing in common with. That little hunger for a lost chance gets expressed only in my fantasies, which contrive themselves almost in spite of me. No green lane, no gate into a wood. He is a gas engineer in the fantasy, of course. He comes to my house to mend the boiler. At first we pretend not to recognize each other. I show him the problem and hover discreetly while he works. He asks me to hand him a spanner from his toolbox, and when he takes it from me he touches my hand with his. I wish he weren’t a gas engineer. It sounds too much like a scenario from one of those funny pornographic films of the sixties, where the milkman or the postman is served up to the bored housewife amid all the conveniences of her own kitchen. But I’ve tried giving him another profession and I simply don’t believe it—it has no connection with the real man. When he stands up to tell me that there’s a problem with the boiler’s valve, he steps toward me and begins to kiss me. It’s then that I see that what we did together has had consequences, for him. It has made him rather reckless, sexually. He has learned the audacity to reach across, through all the mess we make with thinking and talking, through to the body and the body’s truth. I have to be careful not to believe in this. It is only a dream. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Vicious Circle	John Briggs sat on his porch on a dreary hot August day, a glass of ice water sweating in his hand, listening to opera on the radio. The white borders of the screen doors were incandescent with mountain summer. Through them he could see the high windswept ridge above his house, where the low bunchgrass could not get a hold, leaving only a seam of shale to overlook the irrigated valley. Earlier, at the farmers’ market, he’d strolled among the pleasant displays of food and crafts. A bearded youth offered handmade walking sticks; next to him, with a cage full of rabbits, a woman in Chiapas folk costume sold angora tooth-fairy pillows while tugging strands of angora from a rabbit asleep in her lap. An extraordinary assortment of concrete yard animals surrounded a display of bird feeders with folded expired Montana license plates for roofs. A hearty woman with her fists on her hips offered English delphiniums, which, she explained again and again, had never been crossed with Pacific Giants, “not ever.” The Hutterites, in suspenders and straw cowboy hats, had a vast array of vegetables, and their long table faced lines of people five deep, eyes fixed on the produce. A girl in jeans and a bustier played a harp, almost inaudible over the sound of the crowd, beside a table displaying geodes and specimens of quartz. Briggs had a large shopping bag into which he placed his purchases as hegathered them: carrots, kohlrabi, baby beets bought from a woman in a Humane Society T-shirt, and Flathead Lake cherries from an old man in an “Official Party Shirt” from Carlos ’n Charlie’s in Cozumel. A woman with the forearms of a plumber spotted Briggs and stepped from behind a meagre display of homegrown lavender and blocked his path. She gazed at him fixedly and, as he grew uncomfortable, asked, “Is anything coming to you?” Briggs shook his head tentatively. The woman let out a vehement laugh with a faint whistle in it. A mirthless grin spread ear to ear. “Is it possible,” she asked, “that you don’t remember me at all? Two a.m.? January? Roswell, New Mexico? Ring a bell?” Trying to conceal his discomfort, Briggs said that he was afraid it was possible that he didn’t remember. “You glutton!” she roared. He could see that the onlookers were not on his side. The woman followed him for several yards, staring accusingly as he made his way through lanes of boxed produce. He heard the word “glutton” again, over the otherwise gentle murmur of the market. He also heard her ask the crowd whether people like him ever got enough. She was right: it was outrageous that such a thing could have slipped his mind, whatever it was. He was dismayed that he had shared some potent event with this woman and was not even able to recall it. He tried again, but nothing came. Perhaps it had been long ago, but, no, she’d said it was January. Was he losing his memory? He stopped to look at the midsummer light bouncing off the hoods of the cars lined up alongside the park. Someone touched his elbow, and he turned to a young woman with a blue bandanna tied around her neck. She had a basket on one arm filled with parsnips, heavy August tomatoes, onions shedding golden paper in the hard light. “Don’t blame yourself,” she said shyly. “She’s asked a dozen other people the same question and they couldn’t remember, either.” The woman seemed to redden. Briggs was greatly absorbed by her gray eyes and her fine, clear forehead; he thought it was the kind of face that only profound innocence could produce. Her name was Olivia, she said, and she was buying vegetables for herself and her father. Not today, not tomorrow, not until Wednesday could she meet for a drink. In fact, she didn’t want to meet for a drink at all, but in the end they could think of no convenient meeting places other than bars. He would have to wait. Olivia was on time. She’d suggested the Stockman Hotel, which had a popular bar and was midway between their homes. The yellow cotton dress she wore was stylish but out of date, maybe a generation out of date, and must not have originally belonged to her—an elegant hand-me-down. The bar was busy with ranchers, an insurance man, a woman who drove for U.P.S., and two palladium miners, and everyone was talking, except for three men from a highway crew who didn’t know anyone and stared straight ahead holding their beers with both hands. An empty booth remained, and Briggs led her there, questioning his own suggestion so as not to appear coercive. Olivia sat quickly, clasping her fingers, elbows on the table, and looked around. She seemed happy. Her shoulder-length hair was parted in the middle and pulled behind small, pretty ears that were unpierced. She had a sensual mouth for a shy girl, though he supposed he ought not to see that as a contradiction. “Do you know something,” she said, almost whispering. “I don’t remember your name.” “John Briggs.” “Oh. I see. Just like that.” “What do you mean?” “I mean . . . it’s just two syllables!” “I know. It’s like a dirge or a march, isn’t it?” he said. “John-Briggs-John-Briggs-John-Briggs,” she chanted. “Exactly. In second grade, Roland Ozolinsch sat next to me, and he had such a hard time learning to spell his own name that I became grateful for mine’s brevity. I worried about other things instead. I wished for jet-black hair that’d lie flat like Superman’s.” His own hair was russet brown and sprang out. He wished he’d said “shortness” instead of “brevity.” There was something entirely silly about the phrase “grateful for mine’s brevity,” but it seemed to have gone unnoted. A barmaid came to their table, in jeans and a T-shirt advertising a whale-watching boat on Prince of Wales Island: the breaching whale in the drawing was bigger than the boat, whose worshipful passengers were lined up like a choir. She knew Olivia, and they exchanged pleasantries. Briggs ordered a St. Pauli Girl and Olivia ordered a double shot of Jim Beam, with a water back. Briggs was careful not to react. When the order was in, Olivia studied the time on her watch and then on the wall clock, before adjusting the watch. “Four-forty-two,” she said. He guessed that she was nearly, but not quite, thirty, at least a decade younger than he. She wore no rings or other insignia and, in general, was remarkably undecorated, though a glance revealed possible eyeliner and just enough lipstick, the absence of which might have been odd—not pretentious but odd. Her eyes travelled around the bar and then landed on him just as their drinks arrived. “Still hot,” she said, and smiled brilliantly. This all felt like a journey to Briggs, though he couldn’t have said why. “Still hot,” he concurred, thinking, I need to add something. Hot, plus what? Dry? Windy? “Drought drought drought,” she said, much as she’d said his name, in modest march time. “We lost our well and had to drill another, two hundred feet at I forget how much a foot but a lot. Ruined our yard, that man out there with his machine, hammering away.” “I saw on the bank that it’s ninety-seven.” Jesus Christ, Briggs thought, tell her you saw a zebra! As she drank, reacting to the bitterness of the whiskey, she looked straight at him. “You know what would be so sweet,” she said, “is if you’d get me a paper from the lobby.” Smiling in compliance, Briggs got up and went to the lobby. At a table in the large bay window, three young Mormon men in suits craned to watch the heatstruck pedestrians. One unfurled the sports section of the Gazette; another leaned forward, holding his head in his hands. Briggs dropped a quarter into the honor-system jar and took a copy of the paper back to Olivia. She had a new drink in front of her. The bar’s manager, Jerry Warren,who was small, ingratiating, and somehow like a frog in a polo shirt, sidled up to the table. Olivia knew him. “In September,” Warren said, “I’m going to Ireland—” “Are you Irish?” Briggs interrupted. “—no—to hike the Ring of Kerry, booze till two, feel up German girls—” Briggs glanced at an expressionless Olivia. “—and visit ring forts or the odd castle. The brochure promises you your money back if you don’t, like, burst into spontaneous verse by Day Two, though I expect most of the poetry ends up being directed at your raincoat.” Warren rested his hand on the table, and then slowly extended a forefinger. “Next round on me.” “The trouble is, when you just want to get to know someone,” Olivia said with surprising volubility once Warren was gone, “there’s no such thing as neutral ground. Like just now, people come up and assume . . . But, well, here’s another round.” She raised her face in gratitude to the barmaid. “Jerry always tells me his travel plans, no matter how late it gets. He has some crazy jet-lag remedies you ought to hear. By the next morning, I can hardly remember what they were.” “It’s five o’clock,” the barmaid said. “You’re entitled to all of this you want.” When she was gone, Olivia said, “I suppose we did start before five. That woman at the farmers’ market, she must have had someone in mind.” “Funny way to figure out who.” “Or she was just, you know, revisiting the experience.” “But that’s how we met!” This didn’t feel right. Briggs added, “Neighbor.” After thinking about this, she asked, “Have you noticed that out in the country ‘neighbor’ is a verb?” This struck Briggs as a sudden move away from intimacy. Five o’clock had brought a crowd big enough to elbow up to all surfaces—not just the bar but the walls—and the air of day’s-end ebullience was infectious to Briggs, who was a loner and tired of being a loner but seemed unable to do anything about it. “It’s kind of aggressive, isn’t it?” he said. “Usually about how someone failed to neighbor.” “Yes,” she sighed. “And the speaker always makes you think that he neighbors even while he’s asleep.” She covered Briggs’s hands with her own. “How ’bout you?” “I don’t do a lot of neighboring,” he said. Olivia took this in sombrely. “I must strike you as desperate,” she said. The tone had changed, and her smile was slack. “You do not.” “Thank you.” She was nearly finished with her complimentary double, and Briggs, on his third shell of draft, realized that she’d put away six shots of whiskey, which suddenly seemed to be sinking in; the slow movement of her eyes beneath lowered lids, which he had first taken for flirtatious warmth, now appeared to be the start of some narcosis. “That Ring of Kerry thing doesn’t sound like much fun, does it?” she said into space. “Oh, I’ll bet it’s beautiful there.” “But just getting through a wet day to end up in a pub . . . Is that the reward? And where did he get that about German girls?” Only now did she look up at Briggs. “He was probably just trying to entertain us.” Olivia looked surprised. “Oh! Well. Now I’ll be grateful. I’m so dense.” At that moment, Jerry Warren passed their booth. “Hey, Jerry! That was great,” she called out. He stopped. “What was great, Olivia?” “About the ring of German girls in raincoats.” Jerry glanced at Briggs before moving on. “If I can just get through this drought,” he said as he plunged into the crowd. “What does he mean?” Olivia asked. “I’m missing connection after connection.” She gestured to the barmaid for another round. The barmaid waved back and Olivia commented, “I really like her, but she’s a huge slut. Ready for another?” “I don’t know if I can drink more beer. My teeth are floating.” “Your teeth are—?” “I’m bursting with beer.” “Maybe you should drink something more concentrated. Beer’s mostly water. I wish alcohol came in the same size as an aspirin. You just wear out your digestion trying to cop a buzz. And this stuff”—she pointed—“tastes like kerosene. Your teeth are floating! That’s a scream.” Briggs didn’t feel comfortable doing more to prevent the arrival of another round, but when she’d finished it he wished he had. “Olivia.” “What?” “You O.K.?” “Where are we going with this?” “I thought you were going to faint.” “Oh, how wrong you are.” Briggs caught Jerry Warren’s eye and made a writing gesture with his right hand on his left hand. Warren winked his understanding, and Briggs turned back to Olivia. “Let’s get outside while we have a little of this day left,” he said. He could tell that this was perceived from a great distance. He stood up to complete the suggestion and then felt it best to extend a hand, which Olivia took as she got to her feet and quickly leaned against him. “Going to have to do it like this, aren’t I?” “Not a problem. Out we go.” Briggs escorted her through the front door with such success that their exit was barely noticed. The one woman who stared was told by Olivia, “No worries,” in an Australian accent. Once outside, the heat hit her and she began to topple. Briggs had to take her around the corner to find a quiet spot. “I want to help you here, Olivia. You’re having a bit of trouble with your balance.” “How did I let this hap-pen?” she said. “A little birdie says it’s time for me to scoot.” With her hands at her shoulders, fingers fluttering outward, she did the birdie. “How about if you let me drive you home?” “Bor-ing.” “I’m afraid I require it. Where is your car?” “A: We identify make and model.” “Can you do that for me? And parking spot?” She looked left and right. “You know, John Briggs, I’m going to flunk that test.” “No problem. We’ll go in mine.” He helped her into his twenty-year-old sedan. She told him that they’d be lucky if the jalopy made it to her house. The car had old-style seat belts, and by fastening hers across her lap he produced from Olivia a languorous smile. “There!” he said briskly, to undo the smile, and went around to his side, got in, looked over at her amiably, and turned the key. “Doesn’t look like you’re going to try to take advantage of me.” “Nope.” “It wouldn’t be hard. All aboard!” She imitated a train whistle. They headed north, and just as they left town she said, “Hey, there’s my car!” But then she was uncertain again. It didn’t really matter to Briggs, unless she turned out to be right in wondering whether his car would make it. They were halfway to her house before she spoke again. She said, “Ooh, boy, this is a bad idea.” Grassland spread in either direction from the road to the horizon. From the west, a thunderstorm, zigzagged with wires of lightning, was moving swiftly toward them, and the road ahead began to darken with rain. Briggs drove without trying to talk until they reached Olivia’s town. She pointed to various turns and landmarks, letting her hand fall back onto her lap between times. The trees formed a canopy above the street where she said she lived, a street on which either invidious competition or the boundless love of property had prevailed in the form of one perfect lawn after another, and hedges that seemed to have been purchased in sections. At length, she said, “This is it, with the red shutters. Who else has red shutters? Nobody. Just us. Has red shutters. Have red shutters.” Briggs made sure that the coast was clear for assistance to the house. Olivia had lost some ground since they set out and it seemed unlikely that she would be able to walk safely. A man in bicycle shorts went by, leading a Newfoundland; there was a rollerblader, a very old and slow woman pulling a wagon full of groceries, a Federal Express delivery to the house next door, and then it was time to rouse Olivia all over again and go for it. “I’m so sorry,” she said as he steadied her beside the car. “I see the jalopy worked better than I thought it would. Shouldn’t have said what I said. ‘Never ridicule what you don’t understand,’ my father told me.” Briggs reached for the door but it opened before he touched it, revealing a severe-looking older man in a starched white shirt. He had a high domed forehead and piercing blue eyes. He inspected Briggs and, speaking to him but looking at Olivia, who stood with her head hanging, said, “We’re at it again, I see.” Briggs helped her into the front hall and handed her arm to the man, who he guessed was her father, expecting to retreat to his car, but the man closed the door behind the three of them and said, “Wait here,” in what, in other circumstances, might have seemed an intolerably brusque tone. Briggs stood in the hallway as Olivia went off without a word, climbing the stairs with the aid of her father. He could make out the corner of a dining-room table, a section of transom window, dark wainscoting, the old family photographs on either side of the stairway. The father returned. “So sorry to leave you standing here,” he said, guiding Briggs forcefully into the house. “I’m Olin Halliday, Olivia’s father. Not too proud to eat in the kitchen, are you?” Briggs obediently followed Halliday through doors that swung open, then shut. The kitchen lived up to more than ordinary domestic requirements, with a freestanding chopping block, a commercial-grade stove, and a double-doored freezer. Halliday pointed to a dripping bag suspended over a large mixing bowl. “Making cottage cheese. Not ready yet. I hope you like brisket. I like brisket way too well, and I never seem to get it quite like I want it, though this time I’m close. I try to smoke it long enough to start the neighbors complaining. Then I know I’m on the right track. Like everything else, you have to put in the time.” Finally, they were seated, on stools at the chopping block. Halliday carved the brisket with a broad, razor-sharp knife, which he wielded rapidly, each perfect slice just tipping over of its own weight as he sliced the next. Coleslaw, “my tomatoes,” beet greens, corn bread, and iced tea. “Should have beer, but I can’t keep it in the house,” Halliday said. Then he began to eat with the absorption of a hungry man eating alone. Briggs waited a moment, then followed suit, the food so good it created an appetite. “As you have seen,” Halliday said, food still in his mouth, punctuating his words with his fork, “Olivia cannot drink. Cannot but does, and shouldn’t. She is the kind of alcoholic that is usually described as ‘hopeless,’ but of course she is not hopeless, and I’m not without hope. Are you?” “I hardly know Olivia.” “There’s a difference between taking responsibility, Mr. Briggs, and blaming yourself for everything. There should be a line between the two. Olivia does not have that line.” With every remark, Halliday scrutinized Briggs, and because of his sky-blue eyes his gaze may have seemed more penetrating than he intended. Just then Olivia called down in a near-screech, “Tell him what they did to me!” Halliday and Briggs looked at each other in silence, Briggs’s alarmed. Briggs said, “What does she mean by that?” “It’s always something new,” Halliday said, looking away. “She has hung on to her job at the hospital. I’ve helped there, but an argument can still be made that she’s viable.” “You tell him!” “I’m afraid this could go on. Have you had enough to eat?” “Yes.” “Don’t be worried. This is the best place she could be.” “I hope so.” “I’m her father, Mr. Briggs, and I’m a doctor.” Briggs felt no urgency to respond. After a moment had passed, he asked, “Where is Olivia’s mother?” “Olivia’s mother is no longer living. I delivered Olivia and I adopted her. Olivia’s mother was not married.” “Has her mother been dead for a long time?” Halliday smiled cheerlessly. “She’s been dead almost since Olivia was born. She jumped off Carter’s Bridge and went all the way to North Dakota before what the fauna of the Great Plains had left of her was found. It was sad, it was unforeseen, and it was certainly not anybody’s fault, least of all Olivia’s, but Olivia doesn’t see it that way.” “Have you done anything to help her get over it?” “Nothing that has worked. You’ve seen that. But now I’m going to try something new and, to tell the truth, I’m optimistic. Olivia is almost pathologically shy, and I’m convinced that this is connected to the grudge that she holds against herself. She is quite dependent upon me, especially financially, which has caused plenty of resentment. That’s my only lever, but it’s a good one. Anyway, long story short, I am going to require Olivia to join Toastmasters International.” Halliday watched complacently as his new idea sank in. Briggs suspected that he wasn’t the first stranger on whom it had been tried out. He began to wonder what other harebrained cures Halliday might have attempted on the poor girl. “I don’t get it.” “You don’t have to get it. Olivia has to get it. I’m going to help Olivia ground herself. I want to revise her core values. You don’t know the boyfriends she’s had. I want her to learn to recognize and avoid cheapskates. I want her to boldly share her message. I want her to quit going off on tangents. I think that, if she looked within and learned the skills of public speaking, she would delight audiences with dynamic presentations by simply unleashing her inner self.” “I’ve never heard of anything this crazy.” “I take that as a compliment. It has never bothered me to be ahead of the crowd.” Briggs left immediately, making his exit as rude as possible. As soon as he was under way in his car, he was aware of the smell of Olivia’s perfume, which was somehow more conspicuous in her absence. He hardly had a profound connection to her, but he could not get her out of his mind. For the first time, his car actually did seem like a jalopy. And Halliday had surely taken him for a cheapskate. “I don’t have a garage,” he could have explained. “Why leave a good car sitting out in the weather?” This was the first of his imaginary dialogues with Olivia. One about drinking left him believing that she was possessed, an idea whose tawdry allure was both obvious and appealing. He imagined a priestly intervention in which evil spirits were exorcised and Halliday, with his pop theories, stayed well to the rear. Briggs understood that these daydreams were meant to allay some heartache. Briggs spent most of September working on his place, getting ready to go back to work. He repainted the shutters, a maddening job because of all the louvres. He set pack-rat traps and pruned the raspberry patch. He alphabetized his library, a recurrent task, since he never put books back where they belonged. He changed the water filter in the basement and removed the ghastly mushrooms that had volunteered there. The lawn seemed to have stopped growing, so he put the mower in the garage. Next to the barn was a stack of old boards that had warped and rotted beyond use; he pulled the truck around in order to haul this trash to a safe place for burning. He was nearly finished when he reached for a heavy sheet of exterior plywood, which he had to raise on its edge to drag it to the truck. As he lifted it, he felt something strike his leg, like the blow of a stick. He raised the plywood higher and saw the coiled rattlesnake, dropped the plywood, and backed away with a chill. He drew up his pant leg and saw where the fangs had gone in and the slight reddening around the marks. He pulled off his work gloves and decided he’d take the back way to the hospital in his truck. He wondered how bad this was going to be. It was a half-hour drive, and by the time he got there the ache and swelling had commenced seriously. He parked close to the emergency room, next to two old ambulances, and limped into the waiting room. The nurse, filling out forms, was a long time acknowledging him, and when she did so it was by the mere raising of her head. When he told her what was wrong, she told him to have a seat. Briggs thought, They must see a lot of snakebites. The spot where he’d been bitten was now quite enlarged and had acquired a dusky cast that worried him. Eventually, the nurse instructed him to fill out a form, which he did with growing awareness of the pain. Then she said, “I’ll take you to your room. You’ll be spending the night.” She turned, and Briggs followed her down a brown corridor with the usual antiseptic smell and rolling stainless-steel tables. She left him in the room. He propped one foot on the toe of the other to alleviate the rhythmic ache and found himself perspiring. He reached for the remote control, turned the TV on, and then turned it off immediately. A few minutes later, Olivia entered in a nurse’s uniform. “Let’s get rid of those pants,” she said. As Briggs lay in his shorts, Olivia bent close over the wound and studied it in silence. “Right back,” she said, and left the room. When she returned a few minutes later, she had a metal tray, from which she extracted a syringe. “I don’t like this stuff,” she said, “but the poison has spread and we’ve got to use it. It will help with the pain. We’re talking pronto.” Briggs had planned a conversation designed to break this mystery, but Olivia was leaning over him, studying his eyes as she pressed the hypodermic into him, when here came the enveloping wave and he was overcome. “Feels so good,” she said quietly. “Doesn’t it?” He nodded slowly, infinitely grateful for the bite of the rattlesnake. She held his face in her hands and gazed at him as he went under. “I just know it feels so good.” When he awoke the next morning, he doubted everything he remembered. He checked his leg to see if he’d been bitten by a snake, and thank God he had. He noticed that the pain was gone. He rang the call button next to his bed. A nurse entered, a tall, peevish woman of fifty, carrying a copy of Field & Stream. “I’m better, and I’m going home.” “Doctor will decide when you can go.” Because Briggs’s impatience was growing, it was a blessing that the doctor came soon. Close to retirement age, he was a well-groomed, silver-haired man, exceedingly thin, in polished walking shoes, cuffed serge pants, and a sparkling white smock. “How do you feel?” “I feel fine, ready to go home. I suppose the nurse is off today?” “What nurse?” “The one who treated me last night.” “I treated you last night. You were sound asleep, like you’d passed out. In any case, I couldn’t wake you. I went ahead and did what I thought best. I gave you a good slug of antivenin.” “I clearly remember a woman, coming and treating me.” “I hope she was pretty. It was a dream.” “Let me ask you something—is Dr. Halliday on duty today?” The doctor looked startled and a little evasive. He said, “Dr. Halliday lost his license to practice long ago. Of course, we feel terrible about it. His daughter has stayed with us, and we hope that’s some help in a very regrettable situation.” Briggs left the hospital in the same dirty clothes he’d worn to paint and clean his yard. He drove home, parked by the woodpile, and killed the snake with a hoe, then went up to the house to read his mail and check his phone messages. He felt an incongruous sadness over killing the snake, which had tried in vain to get away. The refrigerator was still well stocked, and he started a pot of spicy vegetable soup. He smelled mothballs and remembered the blankets he’d put in storage the day before. On Wednesday, he took three shirts and a sports jacket to be dry-cleaned. He usually went to Arnold’s, where he had an account, but it was closed on Wednesdays, so he drove a few extra miles and carried his things into Bright’s. The smell of cleaning fluid was a little stronger in Bright’s, and he wondered if that meant that they were more thorough or just harsher on the clothes. To the left of the long counter was a revolving circular rack, which ran electrically, and was now being operated by a broad woman with her back to him. She said, “Be just a sec,” as she compared a slip in her hand with the several tags on the clothes that revolved before her. She found what she was looking for, a tuxedo, and took it down to hang on a rack next to the cash register, then turned to Briggs: it was her, the woman who had accosted him at the farmers’ market. She recognized him first and covered her mouth with her hands. “I wondered if I’d see you again. I so have to apologize to you! I completely and utterly thought you were someone else.” “Don’t give it a thought,” Briggs said with reserve. He added, “I gather you thought that a number of other people were someone else.” This puzzled her. “No, just you.” “I was led to think otherwise. It’s my turn to apologize.” “Can we call it even Stephen?” He hoped that he’d have a chance to speak to Olivia about this. So, later in the fall, when he received an invitation to her wedding, his first thought was “Of course I’ll go.” In the receiving line, Olivia hung around the neck of her new husband, a glass of champagne in her hand, jubilant and tipsy. The wedding party was clamorous, gathered under the old trees behind the house with red shutters. The groom was a specimen of tidy manhood, with black, tightly clipped hair, blue eyes, and ears like little seashells; he wore a perfectly tailored dark summer suit and a colorful tie that spelled out the word “Montana”—not the state but Claude, the French couturier. Briggs wondered if he was wrong in thinking that the groom wore eyeliner. Olivia touched the champagne glass to the tip of her nose and giggled when Briggs appeared. He knew right away that he wouldn’t be able to ask his questions. He pumped the groom’s hand and wished them all the luck in the world. He meant it, even though he felt the same queer longing on seeing Olivia. It was her husband’s turn to go for a ride. During the ceremony, rain clouds had grumbled overhead and now the shower began. The wedding party rushed to the house with hilarity, and Briggs decided that this would be a good time for him to leave, but Olivia detained him, resting her outspread fingers on his shirt while the rain fell on them both. She was remarkably heedless in her beautiful wedding gown, and Briggs caught sight of the husband’s face in the hall window. “You were so good to me that time and so patient with my father,” she said. “Where is your father?” “We got him out of here.” She was close to him as she spoke. He felt her breath on his face and his heart was racing. “I’m glad I had the chance to . . .” She smiled. “To give you a lift when you were in the hospital.” The rain redoubled, sweeping down through the canopy of leaves, and they fled to the house, Olivia disappearing into the happy crowd. Briggs didn’t know quite what to do with himself. He made his way back to the kitchen where he’d dined with Dr. Halliday. It was empty. He went to the sink and ran the tap until the water was cold, filled a glass, and drank it down. The pandemonium outside elevated for an instant as the kitchen door opened behind him. When he put the glass down and turned around, he was looking into the face of the groom, aggressively close to his own. He stared at Briggs in silence. “I hope you understand that you will never put your nasty hands on her again,” he said. “Get over it.” Briggs looked at this handsome, well-cared-for man. “It will be hard to give up,” he said. “But you will, won’t you?” “I suppose. It was so intense. The last time, in my car, the air bags deployed. But, yes, you have my word.” The groom reached out his hand and Briggs took it. The hand was so clammy that Briggs had an instant of sympathy. In the groom’s face nothing changed. “Have we got a deal?” the groom asked, and Briggs pretended to agonize over the decision. He let the conflicts play themselves out on his face before heaving a great sigh. “We’ve got a deal,” he said, his voice resigned. As they strolled back to the party together, Briggs decided that spicing things up in this way was absolutely the last favor he would do for Olivia. He watched the groom go to her and whisper in her ear. Olivia looked over at Briggs, smiled at him sadly, he thought, and waved. Hello? Goodbye? He wasn’t sure. The rain had stopped, and something caused the wedding crowd to gravitate toward the stately elm shading the lawn, its leaves just starting to change color. Briggs followed until he was part of the half-circle of celebrants facing Olivia, who stood on a small dais, placed there, he supposed, for this purpose. “I’d like to propose a toast!” she called out in a voice that carried remarkably. He barely heard her words, but stared, spellbound, at her wide, confident smile, the steady movement of her head as she took in all the wedding guests, and the hand gestures that would have been clear from the nearby mountains. Her voice rang out expressively, each syllable occupying its own time and space. At the end of the toast, she clasped her hands to her chest, bowed modestly to the admiring applause, and, without looking, reached out a regal hand to her new husband. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Brief History of the Dead	When the blind man arrived in the city, he claimed that he had travelled across a desert of living sand. First he had died, he said, and then—snap!—the desert. He told the story to everyone who would listen, bobbing his head to follow the sound of their footsteps. Showers of red grit fell from his beard. He said that the desert was bare and lonesome and that it had hissed at him like a snake. He had walked for days and days, until the dunes broke apart beneath his feet, surging up around him to lash at his face, then everything went still and began to beat like a heart. The sound was as clear as any he had ever heard. It was only at that moment, he said, with a million arrow-points of sand striking his skin, that he had truly realized he was dead. Jim Singer, who managed the sandwich shop in the monument district, said that he had felt a prickling sensation in his fingers and then stopped breathing. “It was my heart,” he insisted, thumping on his chest. “Took me in my own bed.” He had closed his eyes, and when he opened them again he was on a train, the kind that trolleys small children around in circles at amusement parks. The rails were leading him through a thick forest of gold-brown trees, but the trees were actually giraffes, and their long necks were reaching like branches into the sky. A wind rose up and peeled the spots from their backs. The spots floated down around him, swirling and dipping in the wake of the train. It took him a long time to understand that the throbbing noise he heard was not the rattling of the wheels along the tracks. The girl who liked to stand beneath the poplar tree in the park said that she had died into an ocean the color of dried cherries. For a while, the water had carried her weight, she said, and she lay on her back turning in meaningless circles, singing the choruses of the pop songs she remembered. But then there was a drum of thunder, and the clouds split open, and the ball bearings began to pelt down around her—tens of thousands of them. She had swallowed as many as she could, she said, stroking the cracked trunk of the poplar tree. She didn’t know why. She filled like a lead sack and sank slowly through the layers of the ocean. Shoals of fish brushed past her, their blue and yellow scales the brightest thing in the water. And all around her she heard that sound, the one that everybody heard, the regular pulsing of a giant heart. The stories people told about the crossing were as varied and elaborate as their ten billion lives, so much more particular than the other stories, the ones they told about their deaths. After all, there were only so many ways a person could die: either your heart took you, or your head took you, or it was one of the new diseases. But no one followed the same path over the crossing. Lev Paley said that he had watched his atoms break apart like marbles, roll across the universe, then gather themselves together again out of nothing at all. Hanbing Li said that he woke inside the body of an aphid and lived an entire life in the flesh of a single peach. Graciella Cavazos would say only that she began to snow—four words—and smile bashfully whenever anyone pressed her for details. No two reports were ever the same. And yet always there was the drumlike thumping noise. Some people insisted that it never went away, that if you concentrated and did not turn your ear from the sound, you could hear it faintly behind everything in the city—the brakes and the horns, the bells on the doors of restaurants, the clicking and slapping of different kinds of shoes on the pavement. Groups of people came together in parks or on rooftops just to listen for it, sitting quietly with their backs turned to each other. Ba-dum. Ba-dum. Ba-dum. It was like trying to keep a bird in sight as it lifted, blurred, and faded to a dot in the sky. Luka Sims had found an old mimeograph machine his very first week in the city and decided to use it to produce a newspaper. He stood outside the River Road Coffee Shop every morning, handing out the circulars he had printed. One particular issue of the L. Sims News & Speculation Sheet—the Sims Sheet, people called it—addressed the matter of this sound. Fewer than twenty per cent of the people Luka interviewed claimed that they could still hear it after the crossing, but almost everyone agreed that it resembled nothing so much as—could be nothing other than—the pounding of a heart. The question, then, was where did it come from? It could not be their own hearts, for their hearts no longer beat. The old man Mahmoud Qassim believed that it was not the actual sound of his heart but the remembered sound, which, because he had both heard and failed to notice it for so long, still resounded in his ears. The woman who sold bracelets by the river thought that it was the heartbeat at the center of the world, that bright, boiling place she had fallen through on her way to the city. “As for this reporter,” the article concluded, “I hold with the majority. I have always suspected that the thumping sound we hear is the pulse of those who are still alive. The living carry us inside them like pearls. We survive only so long as they remember us.” It was an imperfect metaphor—Luka knew that—since the pearl lasts much longer than the oyster. But rule one in the newspaper business was that you had to meet your deadlines. He had long since given up the quest for perfection. There were more people in the city every day, and yet the city never failed to accommodate them. You might be walking down a street you had known for years, and all of a sudden you would come upon another building, another whole block. Carson McCaughrean, who drove one of the sleek black taxis that roamed the streets, had to redraw his maps once a week. Twenty, thirty, fifty times a day, he would pick up a fare who had only recently arrived in the city and have to deliver him somewhere he—Carson—had never heard of. They came from Africa, Asia, Europe, and the Americas. They came from churning metropolises and from small islands in the middle of the ocean. That was what the living did: they died. There was an ancient street musician who began playing in the red brick district as soon as he reached the city, making slow, sad breaths with his accordion. There was a jeweller, a young man, who set up shop at the corner of Maple and Christopher Streets and sold diamonds that he mounted on silver pendants. Jessica Auffert had operated her own jewelry shop on the same corner for more than thirty years, but she did not seem to resent the man, and in fact brought him a mug of fresh black coffee every morning, exchanging gossip as she drank with him in his front room. What surprised her was how young he was—how young so many of the dead were these days. Great numbers of them were no more than children, who clattered around on skateboards or went racing past her window on their way to the playground. One, a boy with a strawberry discoloration on his cheek, liked to pretend that the rocking horses he tossed himself around on were real horses, the horses he had brushed and fed on his farm before they were killed in the bombing. Another liked to swoop down the slide over and over again, hammering his feet into the gravel as he thought about his parents and his two older brothers, who were still alive. He had watched them lift free of the same illness that had slowly sucked him under. He did not like to talk about it. This was during a war, though it was difficult for any of them to remember which one. Occasionally, one of the dead, someone who had just completed the crossing, would mistake the city for Heaven. It was a misunderstanding that never persisted for long. What kind of Heaven had the blasting sound of garbage trucks in the morning, and chewing gum on the pavement, and the smell of fish rotting by the river? What kind of Hell, for that matter, had bakeries and dogwood trees and perfect blue days that made the hairs on the back of your neck rise on end? No, the city was not Heaven, and it was not Hell, and it certainly was not the world. It stood to reason, then, that it had to be something else. More and more people came to adopt the theory that it was an extension of life itself—a sort of outer room—and that they would remain there only so long as they endured in living memory. When the last person who had actually known them died, they would pass over into whatever came next. It was true that most of the city’s occupants went away after sixty or seventy years. While this did not prove the theory, it certainly served to nourish it. There were stories of men and women who had been in the city much longer, for centuries and more, but there were always such stories, in every time and place, and who knew whether to believe them? Every neighborhood had its gathering spot, a place where people could come together to trade news of the other world. There was the colonnade in the monument district, and the One and Only Tavern in the warehouse district, and right next to the greenhouse, in the center of the conservatory district, was Andrei Kalatozov’s Russian Tea Room. Kalatozov poured the tea he brewed from a brass-colored samovar into small porcelain cups that he served on polished wooden platters. His wife and daughter had died a few weeks before he did, in an accident involving a land mine they had rooted up out of the family garden. He was watching through the kitchen window when it happened. His wife’s spade struck a jagged hunk of metal so cankered with rust from its century underground that he did not realize what it was until it exploded. Two weeks later, when he put the razor to his throat, it was with the hope that he would be reunited with his family in Heaven. And, sure enough, there they were—his wife and daughter—smiling and taking coats at the door of the tearoom. Kalatozov watched them as he sliced a lemon into wedges and arranged the wedges on a saucer. He was the happiest man in the room—the happiest man in any room. The city may not have been Heaven, but it was Heaven enough for him. Morning to evening, he listened to his customers as they shared the latest news about the war. The Americans and the Middle East had resumed hostilities, as had China and Spain and Australia and the Netherlands. Brazil was developing another mutagenic virus, one that would resist the latest antitoxins. Or maybe it was Italy. Or maybe Indonesia. There were so many rumors that it was hard to know for sure. Now and then, someone who had died only a day or two before would happen into one of the centers of communication—the tavern or the tearoom, the river market or the colonnade—and the legions of the dead would mass around him, shouldering and jostling him for information. It was always the same: “Where did you live?” “Do you know anything about Central America?” “Is it true what they’re saying about the ice caps?” “I’m trying to find out about my cousin. He lived in Arizona. His name was Lewis Zeigler, spelled l-e-w-i-s. . . .” “What’s happening with the situation along the African coast—do you know, do you know?” “Anything you can tell us, please, anything at all.” Kiran Patel had sold beads to tourists in the Bombay hotel district for most of a century. She said that there were fewer and fewer travellers to her part of the world, but that this hardly mattered, since there was less and less of her part of the world for them to see. The ivory beads she had peddled as a young woman became scarce, then rare, then finally unobtainable. The only remaining elephants were caged away in the zoos of other countries. In the years just before she died, the “genuine ivory beads” she sold were actually a cream-colored plastic made in batches of ten thousand in Korean factories. This, too, hardly mattered. The tourists who stopped at her kiosk could never detect the difference. Jeffrey Fallon, sixteen and from Park Falls, Wisconsin, said that the fighting hadn’t spread in from the coasts yet, but that the germs had, and he was living proof. “Or not living, maybe, but still proof,” he corrected himself. The bad guys used to be Pakistan, and then they were Argentina and Turkey, and after that he had lost track. “What do you want me to tell you?” he asked, shrugging his shoulders. “Mostly I just miss my girlfriend.” Her name was Tracey Tipton, and she did this thing with his earlobes and the notched edge of her front teeth that made his entire body go taut and buzz like a guitar string. He had never given his earlobes a second thought until the day she took them between her lips, but now that he was dead he thought of nothing else. Who would have figured? The man who spent hours riding up and down the escalators in the Ginza Street Shopping Mall would not give his name. When people asked him what he remembered about the time before he died, he would only nod vigorously, clap his hands together, and say, “Boom!,” making a gesture like falling confetti with his fingertips. The great steel-and-polymer buildings at the heart of the city, with their shining glass windows reflecting every gap between every cloud in the sky, gave way after a few hundred blocks to buildings of stone and brick and wood. The change was so gradual, though, and the streets so full of motion, that you could walk for hours before you realized that the architecture had transformed itself around you. The sidewalks were lined with movie theatres, gymnasiums, hardware stores, karaoke bars, basketball courts, and falafel stands. There were libraries and tobacconists. There were lingerie shops and dry cleaners. There were hundreds of churches in the city—hundreds, in fact, in every district—pagodas, mosques, chapels, and synagogues. They stood sandwiched between vegetable markets and video-rental stores, sending their crosses, domes, and minarets high into the air. Some of the dead, it was true, threw aside their old religions, disgusted that the afterlife, this so-called great beyond, was not what their lifetime of worship had promised them. But for every person who lost his faith there was someone else who held fast to it, and someone else again who adopted it. The simple truth was that nobody knew what would happen to them after their time in the city came to an end, and just because you had died without meeting your God was no reason to assume that you wouldn’t one day. This was the philosophy of José Tamayo, who offered himself once a week as a custodian to the Church of the Sacred Heart. Every Sunday, he waited by the west door until the final service was over and the crowd had dissolved back into the city, and then he swept the tile floor, polished the pews and the altar, and vacuumed the cushions by the Communion rail. When he was finished, he climbed carefully down the seventeen steps in front of the building, where the blind man stood talking about his journey through the desert, and made his way across the street to his apartment. He had damaged his knee once during a soccer match, and ever since then he felt a tiny exploding star of pain above the joint whenever he extended his leg. The injury had not gone away, even after the crossing, and he did not like to walk too far on it. This was why he had chosen to work for the Church of the Sacred Heart: it was the closest church he could find. He had, in fact, been raised a Methodist, in the only non-Catholic congregation in Juan Tula. He frequently thought of the time he stole a six-pack of soda from the church storage closet with the boys in his Sunday-school class. They had heard the teacher coming and shut the door, and a thin ray of light had come slanting through the jamb, illuminating the handle of a cart filled with folding chairs—forty or fifty of them, stacked together in a long, tight interdigitation. What José remembered was staring at this cart and listening to his teacher’s footsteps as the bubbles of soda played over the surface of his tongue, sparking and collapsing against the roof of his mouth. The dead were often surprised by such memories. They might go weeks and months without thinking of the houses and neighborhoods they had grown up in, their triumphs of shame and glory, the jobs and routines and hobbies that had slowly eaten away their lives, yet the smallest, most inconsequential episode would leap into their thoughts a hundred times a day, like a fish smacking its tail on the surface of a lake. The old woman who begged for quarters in the subway remembered eating a meal of crab cakes and horseradish on a dock by Chesapeake Bay. The man who lit the gas lamps in the theatre district remembered taking a can of beans from the middle of a supermarket display pyramid and feeling a flicker of pride and then a flicker of amusement at his pride when the other cans did not fall. Andreas Andreopoulos, who had written code for computer games all forty years of his adult life, remembered leaping to pluck a leaf from a tree, and opening a fashion magazine to smell the perfume inserts, and writing his name in the condensation on a glass of beer. They preoccupied him—these formless, almost clandestine memories. They seemed so much heavier than they should have been, as if that were where the true burden of his life’s meaning lay. He sometimes thought of piecing them together into an autobiography, all the toy-size memories that replaced the details of his work and family, and leaving everything else out. He would write it by hand on sheets of unlined notebook paper. He would never touch a computer again. There were places in the city where the crowds were so swollen you could not move without pressing into some arm or hip or gut. As the numbers of the dead increased, these areas became more and more common. It was not that the city had no room for its inhabitants but that when they chose to herd together they did so in certain places, and the larger the population grew the more congested these places became. The people who were comfortable in their privacy learned to avoid them. If they wanted to visit the open square in the monument district, or the fountains in the neon district, they would have to wait until the population diminished. This always seemed to happen in times of war or plague or famine. The park beside the river was the busiest of the city’s busy places, with its row of white pavilions and its long strip of living grass. Kite venders and soft-drink stands filled the sidewalks, and saddles of rock carved the water into dozens of smoothly rounded coves. There came a day when a man with a thick gray beard and a tent of bushy hair stumbled out of one of the pavilions and began to bump into the shoulders of the people around him. He was plainly disoriented, and it was obvious to everyone who saw him that he had just passed through the crossing. He said that he was a virologist by profession. He had spent the last five days climbing the branches of an enormous maple tree, and his clothing was tacked to his skin with sap. He seemed to think that everybody who was in the park had also been in the tree with him. When someone asked him how he had died, he drew in his breath and paused for a moment before he answered. “That’s right, I died. I have to keep reminding myself. They finally did it, the sons of bitches. They found a way to pull the whole thing down.” He twisted a plug of sap from his beard. “Hey, did any of you notice some sort of thumping noise inside the tree?” It was not long after this that the city began to empty out. The single-room office of the L. Sims News & Speculation Sheet was in one of the city’s oldest buildings, constructed of chocolate-colored brick and masses of silver granite. Streamers of pale-yellow moss trailed from the upper floors, hanging as low as the ledge above the front door, and each morning, as Luka Sims stood cranking away at his mimeograph machine, sunlight filtered through the moss outside his window and the room was saturated with a warm, buttery light. Sometimes he could hardly look out at the city without imagining that he was gazing through a dying forest. By seven o’clock, he would have printed a few thousand copies of his circular and taken them to the River Road Coffee Shop, where he would hand them out to the pedestrians. He liked to believe that each person who took one passed it on to someone else, who read it and passed it on to someone else, who read it and passed it on to someone else, but he knew that this was not the case. He always saw at least a few copies in the trash on his way home, the paper gradually uncrinkling in the sun. Still, it was not unusual for him to look inside the coffee shop and see twenty or thirty heads bent over copies of the latest Sims Sheet. He had been writing fewer stories about the city recently and more about the world of the living, stories he assembled from interviews with the recent dead, most of whom were victims of what they called “the epidemic.” These people tended to blink a lot—he noticed that. They squinted and rubbed their eyes. He wondered if it had anything to do with the virus that had killed them. Luka saw the same faces behind the coffee-shop window every day. “hundreds exposed to virus in tokyo. new epicenters discovered in johannesburg, copenhagen, perth.” Ellison Brown, who prepared the baked desserts in the kitchen, always waited for Luka to leave before he glanced at the headlines. His wife had been a poet of the type who liked to loom nearby with a fretful look on her face while he read whatever she had written that day, and there was nothing that bothered him more than feeling that he was being watched. “incubation period less than five hours. exposure at noon, mortality at midnight.” Charlotte Sylvain would sip at her coffee as she scanned the paper for any mention of Paris. She still considered the city her home town, though she had not been there in fifty years. Once, she saw the word “Seine” printed in the first paragraph of an article and her fingers tightened involuntarily around the page, but it was only a misprint of the word “sienna,” and she would never see her home again. “virus becomes airborne, waterborne. two billion dead in asia and eastern europe.” Mie Matsuda Ryu was an enthusiast of word games. She liked to read the Sims Sheet twice every morning, once for content and once for any hidden patterns she could find—palindromes, anagrams, the letters of her own name scrambled inside other words. She never failed to spot them. “ ‘twenty-four-hour bug’ crosses atlantic. fatality rate nearing one hundred per cent.” The people who went knocking on the doors of the city began to notice something unusual. The evangelists and travelling salesmen, the petitioners and census takers, they all said the same thing: the numbers of the dead were shrinking. There were empty rooms in empty buildings that had been churning with bodies just a few weeks before. The streets were not so crowded anymore. It was not that people were no longer dying. In fact, there were more people dying than ever. They arrived by the thousands and the hundreds of thousands, every minute of every hour, whole houses and schools and neighborhoods of them. But, for every person who made it through the crossing, two or three seemed to disappear. Russell Henley, who sold brooms that he lashed together from cedar branches and hanks of plastic fibre, said that the city was like a pan with a hole in it. “No matter how much water you let in, it keeps pouring right through.” He ran a stall in the monument district, where he assembled his brooms, marketing them to the passing crowds, which barely numbered in the low hundreds these days. If the only life they had was bestowed upon them by the memories of the living, as Russell was inclined to believe, what would happen when the rest of the living were gathered into the city? What would happen, he wondered, when that other room, the larger world, had been emptied out? Unquestionably, the city was changing. People who had perished in the epidemic came and went very quickly, sometimes in a matter of hours, like a mid-spring snow that blankets the ground at night and melts away as soon as the sun comes up. A man arrived in the pine district one morning, found an empty storefront, painted a sign in the window with colored soap (“sherman’s clock repair. fast and easy. opening soon”), then locked the door and shuffled away and never returned. Another man told the woman he had stayed the night with that he was going to the kitchen for a glass of water, and when she called to him a few minutes later he did not answer. She searched the apartment for him—the window beside her dressing table was open, as though he had climbed out onto the balcony—but he was nowhere to be found. The entire population of a small Pacific island appeared in the city on a bright windy afternoon, congregated on the top level of a parking garage, and were gone by the end of the day. But it was the people who had been in the city the longest who most felt the changes. While none of them knew—or had ever known—how much time they had in the city, or when that time would come to an end, there had usually been a rhythm to their tenure, certain things a person could expect: after finishing the crossing, you found a home and a job and a company of friends, ran out six or seven decades, and while you could not raise a family, for no one aged, you could always assemble one around you. Mariama Ekwensi, for one, had made her home on the ground floor of a small house in the white clay district for almost thirty years. She was a tall, rangy woman who had never lost the bearing of the adolescent girl she had once been, so dazed and bewildered by her own growth. The batik cotton dresses she wore were the color of the sun in a child’s drawing, and her neighbors could always spot her coming from several blocks away. Mariama was a caretaker at one of the city’s many orphanages. She thought of herself as a good teacher but a poor disciplinarian, and it was true that she often had to leave her children under the watch of another adult in order to chase after one who had taken off running. She read to the smaller children, books about long voyages, or about animals who changed shape, and she took the older ones to parks and museums and helped them with their homework. Many of them were badly behaved, with vocabularies that truly made her blush, but she found such problems beyond her talents. Even when she pretended to be angry with the children, they were clever enough to see that she still liked them. This was her predicament. There was one boy in particular, Philip Walker, who would light out toward the shopping district every chance he got. He seemed to think it was funny to hear her running along behind him, huffing and pounding away, and she never caught up with him until he had collapsed onto a stoop or a bench somewhere, gasping with laughter. One day, she followed him around a corner and chased him into an alley and did not come out the other end. Philip returned to the orphanage half an hour later. He could not say where she had gone. Ville Tolvanen shot pool every night at the bar on the corner of Eighth and Vine. The friends he had at the bar were the same friends he had known when he was alive. There was something they used to say to each other when they went out drinking in Oulu, a sort of song they used to sing: “I’ll meet you when I die / At that bar on the corner of Eighth and Vine.” One by one, then, as they passed away, they found their way to the corner of Eighth and Vine, walked gingerly, skeptically, through the doors of the bar, and caught sight of one another by the pool tables, until gradually they were all reassembled. Ville was the last of the group to die, and finding his friends there at the bar felt almost as sweet to him as it had when he was young. He clutched their arms and they clapped him on the back. He insisted on buying them drinks. “Never again,” he told them. And though he could not finish the sentence, they all knew what he meant. He was grinning to keep his eyes from watering over, and someone tossed a peanut shell at him, and he tossed one back, and soon the floor was so covered with the things that it crunched no matter where they put their feet. For months after he died, Ville never missed a single night at the tables—and so when he failed to appear one night his friends went out looking for him. They headed straight for the room he had taken over the hardware store down the street, where they used their fists to bang on the door and then dislodged the lock with the sharp edge of a few playing cards. Ville’s shoes were inside, and his wristwatch, and his jacket, but he was not. Ethan Hass, the virologist, drank not in the bars but from a small metal flask that he carried on his belt like a Boy Scout canteen. He had been watching the developments in his field for thirty years before he died, reading the journals and listening to the gossip at the conventions, and it sometimes seemed to him that every government, every interest group, every faction in the world was casting around for the same thing, a perfect virus, one that followed every imaginable vector, that would spread through the population like the expanding ring of a raindrop in a puddle. It was clear to him now that somebody had finally succeeded in manufacturing it. But how on earth had it been introduced? He couldn’t figure it out. The reports from the recently dead were too few, and they were never precise enough. One day, he locked himself in the bathroom of the High Street Art Museum and began to cry, insistently, sobbing out something about the air and the water and the food supply. A security guard was summoned. “Calm down, guy. There’s plenty of air and water for you out here. How about you just open the door for us?” The guard used his slowest, most soothing voice, but Ethan only shouted “Everybody! Everything!” and turned on the faucets of the sinks, one by one. He would not say anything else, and when the guard forced the door open a few minutes later he was gone. It was as though a gate had been opened, or a wall thrown down, and the city was finally releasing its dead. They set out from its borders in their multitudes, and soon the parks, the bars, the shopping centers were all but empty. One day, not long after the last of the restaurants had closed its doors, the blind man was standing on the steps of the church, waiting for someone who would listen to his story. No one had passed him all day long, and he was beginning to wonder if the end had come once and for all. Perhaps it had happened while he was sleeping, or during the half minute early that morning when he had thought he smelled burning honey. He heard a few car horns honking from different quarters of the city, and then, some twenty minutes later, the squealing of a subway train as its brakes gripped the tracks, and then nothing but the wind aspirating between the buildings, lingering, and finally falling still. He listened hard for a voice or a footstep, but he could not make out a single human sound. He cupped his hands around his mouth. “Hello?” he shouted. “Hello?” But no one answered. He experienced an unusual misgiving. He brought his hand to his chest. He was afraid that the heartbeat he heard was his own. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Measuring the Jump	Three hours on I-5 so far, straight as a tightrope, and every twenty minutes or so he sees one of those birds. Always near the roadside, on bent fenceposts or hopping in the gray flossy grass, they look like crows but with breasts a militant strain of orange. They come with an eerie regularity, ten already, and they are alone. Fish, approaching thirty and driving eighty, doesn’t know what to call these birds. They are wretched birds. It’s a stultifying, merciless drive from San Jose to Bakersfield—you’d think it was Iowa or Texas if you couldn’t, faintly, sense the sea air coming over the western hills. Inland like this, it’s hotter and more humid than Fish, who grew up in Illinois, wants California to be. Heat echoes off the road in liquid waves, cars heave with asthma, and Fish’s penis is sticking to his thigh in a way that seems irrevocable. It’s actually a decent drive for a while—all those velour hills lit pink by the dropping of a barn-red sun—but then the road just goes, moaning its way south, and it’s so straight you want to chop your goddam head off. Fish tells himself, audibly, not for the first time, that he would kill his cousin Adam if he had the chance and could get away with it. As children, he and Adam were made to think of each other as brothers, because their mothers were close and neither of them had a male sibling. But they looked nothing alike, and Adam was an only child, while Fish has a younger sister, Mary, married now and with two sets of twins, all of them freckled and insane—they jump on visitors like dogs. Adam lived in Aurora and Fish lived in Galena, so they saw each other only once a month and in the summers went on uneventful canoe trips in lower Wisconsin with groups of angry kids, wearing bandannas and white rope bracelets. Fish is driving to see Adam—there goes another one of those black birds, with plumage like a chest exploding—because Adam has tried to kill himself again. This is his seventh attempt, and now Fish knows he should have flown. San Jose, he’s almost sure, has a direct flight to Bakersfield, less than an hour in the air. Every time he finishes this drive he vows never again, and then two months later he’s here, punching the window, back soaked, left arm sunburned, cursing himself. Fish decides that he’s the dumbest person he knows, aside from Adam, of course, and the guy on the local news who pronounces the “s” in “Illinois.” Five hours at least, this drive, plenty of time to come up with a plan, and he tries to concentrate on Adam but finds himself constantly adrift and onto other subjects, like food and war. Years ago he thought he could have an effect on Adam’s life, but now he knows he’s a spectator, a parent watching a child’s sporting event, hands twisted into fists, unable to influence the outcome. Fish passes a huge beef-processing plant, where a hundred thousand cows are crammed so close they can’t move their tails enough to swat flies. There is no earth visible below their doomed hides. He rolls up the window, the stench vile, punishing. Those stupid cows, he thinks, born to die, born to be eaten, born to walk in their own feces. Jesus! It smells fetid, bloody and sweet, like human innards, if you could open yourself up and bring it all to your nose and inhale. Adam doesn’t talk to his mom or to Fish’s parents, and he’s never had a job, none that Fish can recall, which in a way is impressive—how he’s been able to get by for so many years without any sort of legitimate income. There are people who do this, who divert just enough energy and funds and good will from those close to them to exist without anyone taking much notice; it’s like stealing cable, but on a larger scale. Fish has given Adam about twenty-two hundred dollars over the years, which he has used frugally; he is clever that way. He’s clever in every way, really, even in surviving so many attempts on his own life. Maybe he’s unkillable, Fish thinks, and he suddenly snorts out loud at the thought. Fish’s other cousin, Chuck, a tax lawyer in Charlotte with the face of a priest, pink and surprised, says that Adam looks about forty now, even though he’s only twenty-eight. The drugs do that, Chuck says. Chuck should know. Fish hasn’t seen Adam in almost a year and now he’s afraid to. If Adam looks old, it means that Fish is old and they’re both old, everyone’s old, and— Damn, another one of those birds. There must be a name for those things. Adam’s hope, Fish is sure, is to be the shape-shifting mystery spot in the life of his family and friends. The problem is that Fish has never had a fascination with people who try to kill themselves, and in most ways Adam is nowhere near as strange, for example, as the guy who delivers Fish’s mail, a man named Kojo. “Short for Kojak?” Fish asked when they met. It was a dusty day, orange, windy, the sun like a planet of sand. The mailman laughed. He laughed for about ten minutes over that one. Fish was flattered, then he was scared. Kojo liked to laugh, laughing in a big, clapping way, but he didn’t like to wear the postal pants. He always wore the shorts, no matter how cold it got. He came into Fish’s house once for a beer, and he drank with his mouth all around the bottle, as if he were fellating it. Then he unrolled his sleeve and showed Fish a skin graft he’d got—just for the wack of it, he said. “Took some skin from my lower back and put it on my arm.” The pores in the new skin were smaller and the surface was smoother, less weathered. There are doctors, Kojo said, who’ll do anything for the right money. A week later Kojo brought Fish a collage, the kind junior-high girls assemble, with phrases cut from women’s magazines—“Only Best Friends Know!” “Quiz: Are His Pals the Real Deal?”—pasted over pictures, cut from books, of Winnie the Pooh and Piglet flying kites together, walking through the woods at night, among trees with muscular trunks and eyes that watch. Fish attracts these people. In high school there was an older guy, a senior when he was a sophomore, tall and bent backward. He had a huge, almost perfectly square head, and he wanted Fish to drive cross-country with him, though they’d talked only once, briefly, while they were watching the girls’ swim team practice. “I like butterfly,” the guy had said. His name was either Brendan or Brandon or Stuart. “Butterfly’s good,” Fish had said. That had been their conversation, all of it, and two months later a breathless Brandon appeared, grinning, forehead wet with concentration, when Fish was walking out to soccer practice. “Don’t say no, Fish. We’re gonna head out and fuck this fucking school and drive to Florida. Fuck this fucking fuck!” Fish, not wanting to say no, just said “Sorry,” and followed the rest of the team over the hill, to the upper field, rectangular but sloping on every side, like a freshly filled grave. When Kojo presented the collage to Fish, insisting that he open it there in the doorway, Fish didn’t know what to say. So he thanked Kojo, made plans to see him three weeks hence—they’d have a beer at the end of the month, just tear it up—then, the next morning, Fish got himself a post-office box. Fish is driving, slapping himself to stay alert, and he’s counting, to make sure it’s been seven times. One: the wrists (with an actual saw on his thin, paper-white arms). Two: poison—he drank floor wax, first pouring it into a glass. Three: the gunshot to the stomach. More like the side of the stomach—the bullet grazed him, then went through his window and into the Episcopal church next door. No one was killed or hurt, but Adam felt so bad about it that, four, he stabbed himself in the leg with a cleaver. Five: he tried bringing a hair dryer into the tub with him, but it was suicide-proof, apparently—it turned itself off, leaving Adam shivering, the water having gone cold while he’d got up the nerve. Six: what was six? A car driven into a tree? There was debate about whether that one had been intentional. This time, two nights ago, Adam, half drunk—he was usually impaired when he tried these things—jumped off a motel roof. At least, that’s what Chuck heard from the paramedic who found Adam, unconscious in the parking lot, splayed like a buck on the hood of a truck. It was about forty feet down, Chuck said. Adam could have jumped into a dry gorge a few blocks from the motel and he would have died for sure—the dropoff there was about a hundred feet. Instead, he fell forty feet, into the courtyard, broke his collarbone, cracked his left leg, bent his spine. The road is quiet. I-5 is split, a narrow valley between the comers and the goers, so Fish, his brain marshy and his eyes glazed, can see only the cars that are heading in his own direction. Fish likes to see the faces of people going the other way, to construct stories about them, wish them well or ill, but this is nothing. This drive makes you want to freeze the world and shatter it with a fucking hammer. How does anyone get used to the words “marines killed”? This morning Fish was digging holes in the back yard—holes for posts for a bigger and more elevated deck he’d never build—and had pulled the TV out onto the back porch. Those words came up again and again. And don’t show the damned pictures! Jesus, no. His nerves were already shot, the sun his enemy, when Chuck called from Charlotte and described what Adam had done. “I’m not going this time,” Fish said. “I can get there four days from now,” Chuck said. “Do one day before I come. Make sure he’s not paralyzed. Check that they have him in a real room and everything.” Two years ago, after No. 3, Chuck arranged insurance for Adam, a good plan, and was frequently checking to make sure he was getting his money’s worth. Chuck doesn’t know Adam all that well, and thus his benevolence can be less complicated than Fish’s. He never shared a bedroom with Adam. He never found Adam’s crusty tissues stuffed, like brains displayed in a jar, in a curvy blue bottle he’d won at a carnival. He never caught Adam rubbing down Mary’s legs after track, his hands all over her calves. Fish is driving a rental car. He called that place where they pick you up in a sedan wrapped in brown paper. He called the agency at about noon and they said they’d send the car over at two. He waited in his house. Between twelve and two, he sat, straddling boredom and a new, trembling kind of feeling. He pictured a game he and Adam used to play—it was Adam’s only good toy—where tiny metal football players move around on a field vibrating below them. It was a strange game, because you couldn’t really control the little bastards—you just watched as the field sent them jerking around, crowding together or falling alone. Fish watched some of the national aerobics championship. He closed all the cabinets and, using his new drill, tightened all the hinges. He walked to the stationery shop to see if he could buy Adam anything. They didn’t have much. He got a card congratulating him on his bat Mitzvah, thinking that it was funny, knowing Adam wouldn’t get the joke. Outside, it was summer. He bought a red Sno-Kone, wrapped in the same weak waxy paper they’ve been using for a hundred years, from a tiny man with a cart. He held it gingerly between his fingers. He didn’t want to eat that ice—it was so right, that red dome, like a tiny lost moon he could hold in his hand. It began to melt, so he ate it in gulps. He returned home, thinking maybe he should wait another day, or even two. The sooner he got there, really, the sooner Adam would feel well enough to leave the hospital, and the sooner he’d try it again. The longer Adam was in the hospital, probably restrained in some effective way, the better. He was content, Fish was sure; Adam was always content in a hospital, at least for a week or so. At two-thirty, Fish called the rental place and they said they were on their way and could he give them his address again. He did, and waited. At three o’clock, he called again and it was a new guy on the phone. New guy said he had no record of Fish’s reservation. “You know,” Fish said, “that’s messed up. I’ve been waiting forever and I have to get down to goddam Bakersfield.” New guy sighed and said he’d look again. Then he got back on the phone and said that he was sorry, that he’d found the reservation posted on the bulletin board. “Someone,” he said, “put it up on the board without telling anyone else.” He was directing this to some nameless offscreen co-worker. “Sure,” Fish said, “but isn’t that what the goddam board is for, so you don’t have to tell everyone about it?” Fish wanted a look at that office. “Jesus,” he added. “That’s really fucked.” “Well, I am sorry,” new guy said. “I have a friend in the hospital, motherfucker.” Fish was surprised; he hadn’t contemplated that sentence. He realized that this was one of those moments when one’s impatience—or perhaps the word is rage—was being misdirected. All the same, he thought he’d very much like to punch the new guy till he whispered. New guy told Fish someone would come get him soon, and then hung up. Fish went into the tiny yellow yard in front of his house and took the croquet wickets out of the grass. They’d been sitting there for three months, since Mary’s kids had been over. They couldn’t play to save their lives, those kids. They didn’t care about the rules, either. They just hit the balls like monkeys, squawking and swinging and running into the street. Now it’s seven o’clock, two hours to go. This drive would kill anyone. Adam’s mouth curves too much. He’s never been able to smile without smirking, or listen without sneering. It isn’t his fault, really. He just has too many muscles there, in that area around his mouth. He moved away, to Baltimore, just before high school, so Fish didn’t see him much, but one summer, right after Adam’s parents separated and he and Fish were too old for camp, Adam stayed with Fish’s family in Galena. At first he slept in the basement, next to the dartboard. When he complained about the ticking and groaning of the water heater, he was moved to Fish’s bedroom. It was a small room with a single window, over Fish’s bed, painted shut, the lower corners covered in stickers with google eyes and holograms. That summer, when Adam played football with Fish’s friends every Sunday at the park, he tackled too hard and argued too much. Fish apologized for him, but everyone figured he was just intense, had something to prove, like the kids who’d tried out for the team but missed the last cut. Adam, though, was different, less in control, less focussed on the outcome of the game. He broke a guy’s leg once. One warm weekend they had about twenty playing. They’d set up cones one guy had borrowed from his construction job, and figured they could have a proper kickoff, like the pros. So they booted the ball and started running like madmen at each other, and this kid McGrady, older but spindly, everywhere elbows and knees, caught the kickoff, the ball delivering a thump to his concave chest. He was running for the sideline, when Adam burst through the pack unblocked and just flew, for a frozen second almost perfectly horizontal, then speared him, his shoulders plowing into McGrady’s legs. There was a crack like a broken bat, and everyone cheered because McGrady was barely out of the end zone and his team would be screwed for field position. But then tiny McGrady went red, blood swimming in his face, and he was holding his leg, one hand on either side, gently, like it was too hot to touch. The leg, the tibia, was snapped in two. It was a battlefield kind of gore, the bone poking through like a stick through a garbage bag. “You see that, what I did?” Adam said. Fish had found him up the hill, by the new playground, hiding in a chute. He thought Adam was going to brag about hitting the guy so hard, but instead he said, “Why the hell would I break some kid’s leg? What the hell is wrong with me?” Fish told him that it was an accident, it wasn’t his fault, it was football, a violent game, so what. Now Adam was pulling on the skin under his chin, grabbing it and pinching it. “I shouldn’t play tackle,” Adam said, pulling harder. “I’m not surprised this happened. I’ve thought about something like this, you know? When I get hold of someone I just get too . . . I feel like I want to tear them in half, you know what I’m saying?” Fish nodded. Adam seemed to be horrified and proud and enthralled all at the same time. He had a glow that just wasn’t right, the wild glow of a scientist who’d discovered a formula that could kill millions. The ambulance was loading McGrady now, and had pulled right up onto the field, which everyone thought was great; that had never happened before. Fish walked with Adam across the grass, now black and wet, without saying much. The light was almost gone, so they headed home, afraid of the night that would soon bring Monday. Into the house, through the mudroom, past Fish’s parents playing Pong and up the stairs, Fish quiet, now running his fingers over each baluster, while Adam talked, sighed, touching nothing. Fish finds a parking space under a wide wall of the hospital, pink-bricked and bisected by the kind of steel ladder you see on water towers—a fire escape, maybe. The grounds are lavish, or seem so in the dark—cobblestone paths winding around willows and palmettos, sprinklers hissing. As Fish is walking in, a man in institutional blue holds the door for him. Fish says thank you, tells the man, an aide of some kind, where he’s headed, and the aide, in his scrubs and with plastic bags around his shoes, walks Fish all the way to the Nursing/Trauma Unit. “I’d just confuse you otherwise,” he says. Fish isn’t sure if that’s an insult or what. Adam is in Room 318, on the far side of the building. Fish hopes that he doesn’t have a roommate, because the roommates in hospitals are always deformed and either too sick or not sick enough to be there in the first place, and they listen to conversations and make judgments. But when he gets to the room there’s no roommate, just a twig of a woman, owlish and sallow, sitting on a chair near Adam, eating a brownie. Fish waves hello to the brownie woman and walks around to Adam. He lies flat, with a neck brace on, staring at the ceiling. Fish puts his face in Adam’s line of vision. “Hey,” Adam says, surprised. Fish grunts. Adam doesn’t look forty. He looks twelve. He’s wearing a baseball cap, and his face isn’t wrinkly or strung out or gaunt. With his freckles and the cap, he has the aura of a kid who’s just had his tonsils out. “What’s the hat?” Fish asks. It bears a minor-league team’s logo, showing a beaver holding a bat he’s apparently been chewing on. “What are you doing here?” Adam asks. His eyes open a little more, catching the glare of a car’s headlights in the parking lot. “Who gave it to you?” Fish says. “One of the nurses. Ronnie.” “Do you get to keep it, or is it just for here?” “I don’t know. I think I can keep it. Did you drive down?” “Yeah.” “Wow. Thanks, man.” “That’s a bitch of a drive,” Fish says. “I know. Sorry. Thanks.” On his mobile table are remnants of dinner or lunch or both—uneaten tapioca and two tangelos, and beside them a little tilting pagoda of Tupperware. The lady with the brownie has finished with the brownie and is now cleaning her nails with a pin she had on her lapel. Fish nods to Adam and jerks his head toward her. She has a hospital I.D. tag clipped to her blouse. “She sits here with me,” he says. “They’ve got someone in here all the time so I don’t do anything.” It’s clear that Adam is happy they think he’s such a serious customer, such a dangerous man. Fish looks over at the brownie woman to see if she’s listening, but she isn’t; she’s watching a movie on Adam’s TV—Fred Thompson is playing the President, and is wearing that dissatisfied look he favors. Fish stares out the window. In the parking lot, the cars are colored copper by the light from above, the lamps bent over them like tall thin saints over babies. He sees his rental and misses being inside it. Adam is holding a little tube with a button on it. “Is that for morphine?” Fish asks. “Yeah,” Adam says. “So you try to jump off a building, and they give you an unlimited supply of drugs.” “No. I can only get a certain amount each hour. They’ve got it figured out.” Fish knows it’s just a matter of time before Adam starts telling him why he jumped off the motel roof, but he doesn’t want to hear it. Oh, if only it were interesting! he thinks. But it never is. It’s always “I wanted to hurt myself. I don’t know why.” Nothing of any interest will get said by either of them. Adam will say “I feel so dark sometimes” or “It’s like I see things sometimes . . . through a dark water.” Adam wants Fish to understand, but Fish isn’t interested, and, besides, he’ll call Adam on where he stole that dark-water part—“The Executioner’s Song,” his favorite book—and remind him of a hundred ways the two of them, Fish and Adam, are equal in this darkness bullshit. They’ve seen the same things, they have the same urges. Adam will concede this, and will begin apologizing for everything, and for too long. He’s too contrite, too docile. But at some point they’ll start making plans for when Adam is discharged. This is the only part that ever interests Fish: the steps from here on out. Fish will get inspired, laying out what will happen in the first few days, the weeks after, every move for years: first, a different apartment in a new city, away from the therapist fuckups in Bakersfield who keep prescribing things for Adam, then a menial job while doing some kind of night school, and finally a woman, older, hardened but warm, eyes that could love and kill. “So how’s Mary?” Adam asks. “She’s good,” Fish says. “Where’s she living now?” “I can’t tell you.” “You can’t tell me where Mary lives?” “No.” “Why?” “Because she’s got little kids, Adam, and you’re a guy who shoots himself and jumps off roofs. Fuck you.” For a second Adam looks hurt, or pretends to look hurt, then he closes his eyes. His chin is brown and tied together with black string, spiked along the suture, as if spiders had been sewn into his face. “Ow. Don’t,” Adam says. Fish is touching it. “Why not?” “I got stitches there. Stop it, prick.” “How many?” It’s like a cactus or something. The stitches are amazing. “Twelve. Get the fuck away.” Fish gives him a look. “Sorry,” Adam says. But he has no rights here. After five hours of driving, Fish is allowed to touch what he wants. Fish remembers the card and drops it on Adam’s chest. Adam tries to look down at it. “You have to hold it up. I can’t see.” Fish opens it and shows him the front. It’s an elephant surrounded by Hebrew letters, with “Happy Bat Mitzvah” written below. “A Jewish elephant,” Adam says. “I guess so,” Fish says. Fish used to like hospitals. Waiting rooms in particular. When his last girlfriend, Annie, had her appendix out, he was at the hospital for thirty hours and had a pretty good time. He met about ten people—there was some strange collegial vibe that night. They played cards and Fish won a hundred and twenty-two dollars on a straight flush from a guy whose brother was getting a finger reattached. He’d been drilling a hole through his son’s wall, thought the kid was selling crystal meth and wanted to catch him. That had been a good night. But with Adam he doesn’t want to stay. Fish looks at the clock. It says eight-forty. He’ll leave at nine, he decides. Then he’ll call Annie to see if he can stay with her for the night. Annie follows local politics and has ridiculous lips, full like balloon animals, a voice lower than his. The last time Fish saw her she scratched his head so masterfully, in circles so convincing, that he thought he was rising, ascending. They talk often enough, and she lives in L.A., and he figures he’ll drive over after, not for sex or even romance, just for a place to rest where there’s breathing other than his own, where he won’t have to leave the TV on all night to know he’s not dead. If she’s not around he’ll drive back to San Jose tonight. He could do it. Through the night is easier. “Does your mom know?” Fish asks. He knows that Adam’s mom doesn’t know, because Adam told Chuck that if she found out he’d do it for real next time. “No. I don’t think so,” Adam says. Adam’s father died a few years ago, a botched bypass, and now his mother lives in Australia. She went there to live with a man she’d met in a community-theatre production of “Fiorello!” He played the lead, though apparently he was six feet four and blond. A nurse comes in. She’s Filipino, young. Her nametag says “Hope.” Fish feels an urge to say something about her name, in light of her working in a hospital and all, but then figures she hears that often enough. “That’s a good name for a nurse,” he says. What the hell. She takes Adam’s blood pressure. Fish watches, loving how quickly the armband fills with air, how tight it gets. That device always looks like something illegal. “How’s your pain?” she asks Adam. “Good,” Adam says. “I mean, it’s fine.” The nurse takes the bat-Mitzvah card off Adam’s stomach and puts it on the side table, next to a jar of pink tools, like lollipops but with foam starfish tops. Cleaning devices, maybe, for swabbing mouths or other wet orifices. Fish thinks briefly about taking one of the lollipops and stuffing it up Adam’s fat fucking nose. He almost laughs at the thought of it. Fish leaves while Adam is drifting in and out, his face blank, almost beatific. During a brief moment when his eyes pull open, Fish tells him he’ll check in again tomorrow. The night is sharp, all the lights crisp, and Fish drives to the Motel 6 where Chuck said Adam had been staying. He’s supposed to pick up Adam’s things—four bags’ worth. Adam had been living there for a month, after he was asked to leave his halfway house for skinning a chicken in his room. That’s what Chuck said, at least. If Adam did indeed skin a chicken, he did it just to say he’d done it. “Ask for Mr. Ali,” Chuck said. Chuck was about logistics. He served as Adam’s attorney, benefactor, and medical historian. Fish was someone who could drive down and pick up bags. When he gets to the motel, a women’s volleyball team is checking in. He waits for twenty minutes while they decide who will sleep in whose rooms, and which duffels will stay in the minibus. Fish reads every brochure the lobby offers, and makes a tentative plan to see the irrigation museum. When it’s his turn Fish asks for Mr. Ali, but the woman at the counter, heavy-lidded, wearing a maize-colored sari, says he’s gone. “I am Mrs. Ali. How should I help you?” Fish shows her the letter that Chuck faxed, asking for Adam’s stuff. Chuck insisted on ending the letter with “I trust that this matter will not present a problem.” Every legal letter Chuck writes ends this way. Fish can see the bags just behind her, in a narrow hallway with a cement floor. Two clear plastic bags sit there, alert, and two tennis bags, one covered in mud. Mrs. Ali reads the note, then looks up at Fish. It’s then that he almost cries. Water seems to fill his forehead; his eyes are just portals that show he’s drowning. What is she looking at? How much does she know? She must know. The ambulance picked Adam up here, and she or her husband surely packed and stored his belongings. She knew Adam as a flailer, as a leaper, and now knows Fish as someone who picks up the bags of people like Adam. Mrs. Ali is not seeing a dutiful cousin; she’s seeing another product of a tainted gene pool, who very well might be worse than the first. People who live in motels and jump off motel roofs. There’s a highway just above the motel, and on it people are passing this place at eighty miles an hour, wondering what happens in the filthy little world below. “I have to call Mr. Ali,” she says, and does so, using a receiver that’s larger than her face. She gets off the phone with Mr. Ali and lets Fish into the hallway behind the desk. “Thanks,” he says on the way out. “All right,” she says, opening the door for him. “Good!” she adds, and after he’s gone throws the bolt, right to left. Fish loads the bags into his trunk, and then remembers what he wanted to investigate. He walks over to the courtyard area to see where Adam jumped. He has forgotten to look until now, and is suddenly thrilled. But he can’t find a part of the motel complex that has three or four stories. There is just the one two-story building, in an L shape around the pool, and its roof is only about eighteen feet high. Dumbshit! Fish has figured it out. Forty feet isn’t Adam’s way, after all, but eighteen feet is. He jumped from this. Who jumps eighteen feet? Who does this? This is so wrong. There are too many things wrong everywhere for this kind of thing, this jumping from eighteen-foot roofs. Adam must have known that eighteen feet wasn’t far enough to kill himself, just far enough to hurt like hell. And the only thing worse than an eighteen-foot motel roof is the imbecile staring at it. He goes back to the car and opens the trunk. He reaches inside one of the plastic bags, looking for something solid. Most of it is soft, and here and there moist, but he soon finds a trophy, a small one with a tennis player on top and someone else’s name engraved on it. Elsewhere between the folds of clothes and socks there is some deodorant, a handful of tapes, which Fish pulls out for the drive home, and a bottle of cologne called Together, which makes him laugh. Adam is the only guy he knows who wears cologne. The only other contents of note are five belts, wound as one like a rattlesnake, and a huge container of baby powder. A woman is walking across the lot toward Fish. Every part of her is moving—her ankles, unsteady in heels; her arms swinging; her head, which jitters with each step, as if it, too, played a part in her propulsion. Her features are mismatched—small chin, wide nose, the icy, almost clear eyes of a wolf. She’s wearing jeans and a denim jacket, with pointy blue velveteen boots, the streamlined, utilitarian body of a tomboy teen-ager. “Hi,” she says. “Hi,” he says. “What’re you doing?” she asks. “Coming or going?” She reminds him of the South somehow; he thinks of Kentucky and doesn’t know why. Is she nineteen or thirty? Fish can’t tell. “I’m packing this stuff up,” he says. “Then?” “Then I’m driving down to see a friend.” It’s after ten and he hasn’t called Annie yet. If he calls too late there’s no way she’ll let him come over. “Can you give me a ride?” the woman says. “I’m trying to get to San Diego.” “Oh. Yeah. See, I’m not going that far.” Behind them, a truck parks and sighs. “I know, but I can get out wherever you stop.” He looks at her to see if she has a gun or a crowbar. He wants to help, but he also wants to leave. Not long ago, at a gas station in Daly City, a guy told Fish that he didn’t have any cash, and could Fish spot him twenty dollars—he’d give Fish a personal check in exchange. Fish figured he’d be less than human if he said no, so he said yes. The man had a car, after all, and was wearing a sports coat, so this was just a small transaction between solvent citizens—the guy put his home phone number on the check and everything. But the check bounced. The thing is, Fish had just wanted to help the guy. He spent that first day thinking he had helped the man, believing in the community of souls, in Daly City or anywhere, and then that man took it away. He reached inside Fish and took that from him. He gets in the car and unlocks the passenger side. He moves a Jack in the Box bag and a milk carton and now the woman is sitting in the passenger seat, a few inches from him. She picks up the map from the floor, folds it quickly, expertly, and puts it in the side compartment. “Thanks for this. You’re sweet,” she says, giving him her hand in a royal way. “What’s your name?” “Eddie,” he says, lying. Her hand is cold. He doesn’t know if he should kiss it or shake it. He doesn’t do either, just holds it for a few seconds and lets it drop. “That’s weird,” she says. “My brother’s name is Eddie. Was.” “He changed his name?” Fish pulls out of the parking lot and onto the frontage road. “No, he died.” “Oh, hell. I’m sorry.” “No worries,” she says. No worries. He wants to tell her how much he hates that expression, but doesn’t. “Don’t worry” makes sense, is a pat on the arm, a reassurance from one person to another, but “No worries” implies there aren’t any worries anywhere in the world, and that’s just a huge, unvarnished lie. They get on the highway. Fish asks her name. Her name is Wendy. “Where’re you going?” she asks. “Redondo Beach, I think.” That’s where Annie lives. Near the beach, with a futon, in a cave of an apartment next to the garage of a family of five. Her place is full of small glass figurines of mythical animals, ears pinched while the glass was molten—hippogriffs, hydras, satyrs, a tiny sphinx the color of cantaloupe. “My ex lives in Redondo,” Wendy says. “He’s married now.” “Huh,” Fish says. She is staring at him. He wonders how he looks in profile. “So what were you doing at the motel?” “Nothing. Getting stuff.” “What stuff?” “Just some stuff. Friend’s stuff.” Somehow that sounds shady. But he figures he’ll let it go. She seems impressed, and he likes that. She pushes the radio scan button a few times, and finds that “Oooh-oooh, Jackie Blue” song. “I love this song,” Wendy says, and slaps her lap loudly. She leaves her hands there, sort of grabbing her thighs. He loves the way a woman’s thighs look when she’s sitting down, the fabric tight around them. Like breasts, they are, in their roundness, their over-all optimism. “So do you party?” she asks. “What?” “Do. You. Party.” “In general? I don’t—” “You know. Party.” “Man, I am lost,” he says. “You and me, party, handsome. We should go party somewhere. We could stop and get a drink and stuff. Or a room. Get some weed. Whatever.” Fish knows then what’s up. Normal women don’t call men “handsome”—only waitresses and prostitutes do that. It’s a shame, really. “Handsome” is such a beautiful word. Fish gives her offer some thought. Her thighs have his head lunging. But it would cost too much, right, spending time with a woman like this? He doesn’t know. How did I get to my age without knowing how much things like this cost? Forget it. He never takes off his shirt with people he doesn’t know, anyway. She’d see the hair on his shoulders and his hernia scar, much bigger and less straight than it needed to be—bastard doctor—and she’d think he was a bad package, that the hair and the scar were proof he needed to pay for the kind of company she could offer. “Nah, I gotta get down to Redondo,” he says. “My friend’s waiting for me. And his wife and my mom and everyone. Cousins.” His mouth is adding family members quicker than his head can count. “They’re probably all waiting up.” “We can be quick, if you want,” Wendy says. Another orange-and-black bird appears, shooting across the road low and fast. Fish wants to ask Wendy if she knows what they’re called—thrushes? finches? Not that it would make any difference, knowing their name. He glances over at her; her shoulders are squared to him now, her chin lowered. “I’m not expensive,” she says. Fish pulls off the highway and under a gas-station canopy; it’s bright like daylight and he thinks of Reno. She’s asked to use the bathroom, and her skin looks blue, as if lit from within, and the humidity has lifted. Instead of using the bathroom, though, she heads straight to the pay phone, and while she’s on the phone she waves Fish away like he’s her father dropping her off at a concert. So he leaves. By the time he gets to a phone to call Annie, it’s too late. He wakes her up, or she pretends to have been asleep. Her first syllable is full of scorn, and he wonders if Wendy is still at the gas station where he left her, just a few miles back. “You have to start thinking of other people, honey,” Annie says, without anger, without anything, and hangs up. He is back at the hospital twenty minutes later. It’s well after midnight, and he has no hope of getting up to Adam’s room the standard way. He parks his car in the same spot, and calculates which is the right window. He knows that Adam is on the third floor, and the two possible windows are on either side of the steel ladder. So he runs under the willows and through the palmettos and starts up. It’s the left window. He can see Adam in the light of the TV. His twelve-year-old mug is facing Fish now, eyes closed. The brownie woman has gone. As Fish is about to tap on the glass, Adam opens his eyes. When he sees Fish, he closes one eye, as if looking through a telescope. Fish waves, and Adam, with his fingers only, waves back. Fish hasn’t thought any further than this. If he had a specific message for Adam, he could mime it through the glass, but he doesn’t have a specific message. Adam mouths the word “How?” and points to Fish. Fish is about to mime climbing a ladder but realizes he can’t do this without taking both hands off the rungs. He tries it with one hand, but it looks more like he’s shopping, like he’s doing the shopping-cart dance move. Adam doesn’t get it. Fish shakes his head, wiping the board clean. He’ll just pry the window open and tumble in and talk. But the window frame is flush to the building. There’s no way to open it. Fish decides to knock his head on the glass, and does so, twice. Adam smiles. Fish does it a few more times, just to entertain him. Adam pretends to be laughing a lot. It isn’t as great as either of them makes it out to be, but there isn’t anything else to do. Soon Adam yawns. Fish yawns. Adam’s eyes are flickering, so Fish gestures that he’ll see him tomorrow, rolling his hand like he’s creating a wave, the wave meaning tomorrow, rolling and rolling. Fish drives to Redondo and stays in a Red Roof by the highway. He figures he’ll call Annie in the morning and then see Adam again on his way back north, and do something with all the bags after he’s gone through them and dumped the pills and anything else he doesn’t want Adam to have. He figures he should get him a real suitcase or two, something with a hard shell, sturdy. He can do that tomorrow. Tomorrow he can put Adam’s stuff in the sturdy suitcases and take them to him, put them in the hospital room, lined up by the door so they’re there when he’s ready to leave. He can show him how he repacked everything, put it all in two rows, pants on one side and shirts on the other, with the second suitcase holding the other things—socks and underwear and toiletries and belts. Tomorrow he can do these things better than he did today. Tomorrow! Tomorrow! His room is dark, and he knows he’s being stupid. The room smells like people, and he doesn’t deserve this, to be tricked like this again. He is done being fooled. Why would that sports-jacket man jack him on a bad check? It was such violence. He doesn’t want to be a part of the world under the highway. No. No, he’ll skip Annie and Adam and just get a shotgun now and go to that farm on I-5 and shoot a bunch of stupid cows. Ha-ha! They wouldn’t make it, anyway—some animals are built to die. Maybe cut off their heads and hollow them out and wear one as a mask. Yes! The humidity inside one of those big heavy heads—he’d love to see what it’s like in there for a second. His clean hair would be covered in blood, his face wet, filthy from the stuff he didn’t scoop out before he put the fucking thing on. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
What Kind of Furniture Would Jesus Pick?	Budgel Wolfscale, a telegraph clerk from Missouri on his way to Montana to search for the yellow metal, stopped at a Wyoming road ranch one day in 1898 for a supper of fried venison and coffee, heard there was good range. For the next week he rode around the country, finally staked a homestead claim on a spread east of the Big Horns that had been cut from the holdings of a Scots outfit that pulled out the year before. A year-round stream, Bull Jump Creek, cut the property, fringed by cottonwoods and willows, the shining maroon branches of water birch. It was still open country, though barbwire was coming in with the nesters. He built a shotgun cabin of hauled-out lodgepole, married one of the girls from a whorehouse in Ham’s Fork, and, naming the ranch after the harp his mother had played, thought himself a Wyoming rancher. He wasn’t that, but his sons and grandsons were. The Harp skidded down the generations to Gilbert Wolfscale, born on the ranch in 1945, and in middle age still living a son’s life with his mother in the old house, which had been gradually enlarged with telescoped additions until the structure resembled a giant spyglass built of logs. He ran a cow-calf operation, usually worked the place alone, for even inept help was hard to find. He was a tall man with heavy bones. His coarse skin seemed made of old leather upholstery, and, instead of lips, a small seam opened and disclosed his cement-colored teeth. There were no horses that could match his stamina. Despite his muscle mass he moved with fluid quickness. He surrounded himself with an atmosphere of affronted hostility, but balanced it with a wild and boisterous laugh that erupted at inappropriate times. The old world was gone, he knew that. For some reason a day in the nineteen-fifties when all the ranchers and their hands had worked on the road rose often in his mind and with such vividness that he could smell the mud, the mineral odor of wet rock. He had been eight years old. It was the last rainy spring before that decade’s drought sucked the marrow out of the state. The county road that ran between Kingring and Sheridan passed through seven ranches over a fifty-mile stretch. Under heavy melt from the mountains, it became an impassable sump of greasy mud and standing water. The county had no money. If the ranchers wanted to get to town they would have to fix the road themselves or wait until it dried. On a drizzling morning in April his father drank his coffee standing up. “What say, Gib? Want to come along?” They rode together on Butch, his father’s roan saddle mount. The rain had stopped but heavy clouds moved with the bumping wind. Gilbert clutched the lard pail that held their lunch. They came to a place where men with shovels were strung out along the road. There was a section of an old corral still standing near the road and here men had leaned their tools, lunchpails, and bottles. A few had thrown their jackets on the ground. His father tethered Butch to a post. While the men cleaned the borrow ditches and culverts, cut new drainage channels, built water bars, and hauled gravel, Gilbert hacked manfully at the mud with a broken hoe, but when Old Man Bunner told him to get out of his way or he’d chop off his legs he went to the weathered corral to play with sticks and rocks. He built a play corral of mud and broken miner’s candle stems, and placed inside the rocks that were his horses. The wind cleared out the weather and by noon there was broken blue sky. “Warmin up,” called one of the men, stretching his back. The sun shone behind his ears, which turned the color of chokecherry jelly. The lunch of cold pork and boiled eggs seemed the best thing Gilbert had ever eaten. There were two squares of his mother’s coarse white cake with peanut-butter icing at the bottom of the pail. His father said Gilbert could have both pieces. He fell asleep on the way home, rocked by Butch’s easy walk. His mother groaned with rage when she saw the mud on his clothes. The next morning his father went to work on the road without him and he cried until his mother slapped him. The work went on for a week, and when it ended a truck could get over the road. The first time they drove past the place he looked for his play corral. He could see one miner’s candle stem. The rest had blown away. The rock horses were still there. Fifty years later the road was gravelled and graded by the county but he still looked when he drove past the place, the old corral now nothing but a single post. The prairie had swallowed his horse rocks. After Gilbert Wolfscale inherited the ranch, he enlarged the two irrigated alfalfa fields, which made it possible, in bad years, to feed the cattle through the winter and, in good years, to sell hay to less fortunate outfits. These two fields kept the ledger ink black. He came up with other ideas to increase income. He thought of butchering and packing the beef himself to bypass the middlemen who took the money while the rancher did the work, but the local stores preferred to stay with the chain suppliers. So he put an ad in the paper looking for customers and found half a dozen, but they didn’t eat enough beef to make the venture pay and a woman from town complained that there were bone splinters in the ground beef. He raised turkeys, thinking surefire Thanksgiving and Christmas markets, but never sold very many, even when he put strings of cranberries around their necks. His mother spent days making the cranberry necklaces, but people wanted the plastic-wrapped, pre-basted Safeway turkeys with breasts like Las Vegas strippers. He and his mother ate the turkeys themselves, his mother canning most of the meat. By spring, they were sick of the smell of turkey soup. Some of the original chock-and-log fence—built not of split rails nor slender poles but big logs—stood in the high pastures nearest the forest, but much had been replaced with five-strand barbwire. He could almost see the ground compressing under the heavy log weight. How many men had helped his grandfather build that fence of tree trunks? Gilbert put in his time working on the barb fences, which no longer had the tensile strength of fresh wire but were patched and mended with short lengths of various gauge. In an earlier decade, struggling to finish the job on a hot afternoon, he had cast about for a stick or something to twist tight a diagonal cross-brace wire, but the only thing at hand was a cow’s bleached leg bone with its trochlea head, which seemed made to jam fence wire tight. It worked so well that he collected and used cow bones in dozens of places. These bony fences and the coyote skulls nailed to the corner posts gave the Harp a murderous air. He was a model of rancher stubbornness, savagely possessive of his property. He did everything in an odd, deliberate way, Gilbert Wolfscale’s way, and never retreated once he had taken a position. Neighbors said he was self-reliant, but there was a way they said it that meant something else. Seven miles north of the Harp on the Stump Hole Road lived May and Jim Codenhead. Gilbert had gone to grade school with May—she was then May Alwen. May’s brother, Sedley Alwen, a big, good-natured kid with stringy arms, had been Gilbert’s best friend. Gilbert had courted May for a year, taken it for granted that Sedley would be his brother-in-law, but she’d strung him along and then, in a sudden move on Christmas Day in 1966, married Jim Codenhead. Jim then was nothing more than an illiterate Montana hand working on the Alwen place. May taught him to read until he could fumble through the newspaper. “That’s the shits, man,” said Sedley sympathetically and took Gilbert on a two-day drunk, as much a salute to his draft notice as balm for Gilbert’s disappointment. The marriage wasn’t unprecedented. For those who took the long view and had patience it was the classic route for a lowly cowhand to own his own spread—marry the rancher’s daughter. In retaliation Gilbert went to a New Year’s dance in Sheridan, found Suzzy New, and in ten days pressured her into a fast marriage. Suzzy New was slender and small-boned, with something French about her child-size wrists, a contrast to Gilbert, six foot four, bullnecked with heavy shoulders. She was nimble-fingered and a talented embroiderer. In the flush of their first months together Gilbert bragged that she was so handy she could make a pair of chaps for a hummingbird. She was quiet, disliked arguments and shouting, the only child of elderly parents. She held herself tensely and had a way of retreating into her thoughts. She believed herself to be a very private person. She slept badly, sensitive to the slightest abnormal sound—the creak of a house timber, the rising wind, a raccoon forcing its way through the skirting of the house and under the kitchen floorboards. She had let herself be bullied into marrying Gilbert, and within days of the ruinous act she bitterly regretted it. All her life she had heard and felt the Wyoming wind and took it for granted. There had even been a day when she was a young girl standing by the road waiting for the school bus when a spring wind, fresh and warm and perfumed with pine resin, had caused a bolt of wild happiness to surge through her, its liveliness promising glinting chances. But out at the ranch it was different. The house lay directly in line with a gap in the encircling hills to the northwest, and through this notch the prevailing wind poured, falling on the house with ferocity. The house shuddered as the wind punched it and slid along its sides like a released torrent from a broken dam. Week after week in winter it sank and rose, attacked and feinted. When she put her head down and went out to the truck it yanked at her clothing, shot up her sleeves, whisked her hair into a ravelled fright wig. Gilbert seemed not to notice, but then, she thought, he probably regarded it as his wind, and no doubt took pleasure in such a powerful possession. Sedley went to Vietnam. Gilbert, who had a growth inside his nose, was 4-F despite his strength and muscle. Sedley was captured by the Vietcong and spent several years in a bamboo cage. He came back a different person, crisscrossed with sudden rages brought on by inconsequential events such as the rattle of dishes or a truck crossing the bridge. He was thought to be unstable and in need of watchful care. He moved in with May and Jim. May could calm Sedley down when he was having one of his fits. She had always been close to him, had, from the time she was a small child with nightmares, padded down the hall to his moonless north room, climbed into his bed for warmth and protection. The infant she bore six months after she married Jim Codenhead might have been her brother’s child or, for that matter, Gilbert Wolfscale’s, or even Jim Codenhead’s. For years, whenever Gilbert was at their house, he studied the child, Patty, trying to work out whom she resembled. He could come to no conclusion. Vietnam nightmares tortured Sedley Alwen. Sometimes, to give May a break, Gilbert made the long drive to Cheyenne, taking Sedley to the Veterans Administration hospital, where he saw the shrink and got his prescriptions renewed. It was a two-day trip and they stayed at a motel overnight, sharing a room. After the session Sedley would be talkative. Gilbert listened attentively to his stories of torture and comrades’ deaths. It was at these times Sedley resembled the friend of his childhood, excited and eager. But he could not have whiskey. They tried it once and found out. Whiskey made him act up, smashing the motel furniture and howling at the light fixture in the ceiling. By 1999 Gilbert was fifty-four and caught in the downward ranching spiral of too much work, not enough money, drought. It got drier and drier, grasshoppers appearing as early as April and promising a plague in August. The grass crackled like eggshells under his feet. There was no color in the landscape, the alkali dust muting sage, stones, the earth itself. When a vehicle passed along the road a fine cloud spread out and slowly settled. The air was baked of scent except for the chalky dust. He was conscious of how many things could go wrong, of how poorly he’d reckoned the ranch’s problems. To the new-moneyed suitcase ranchers who had moved in all around him—ex-California real-estate agents, fabulous doctors, and retired cola executives—the Harp looked a skanky run-down outfit. They noticed the yard littered with stacks of rusted sheet metal held down by railroad ties, a pile of crooked fence posts inhabited by chipmunks, the long string of log additions to the old house. Some of these rich people, heated with land fever and the thought of a bargain, came to Gilbert and offered to buy his ranch. He could see in their eyes how they planned to bulldoze the house and build mansions with guest cottages. “Them rich pricks are lower than a snake’s ass in a wagon track,” he said to his mother. “I told him my granddad homesteaded this place and if I ever seen his California butt on my property again I’d shoot it off. I looked him right in the eye and he got the message. He turned color so fast he farted.” His mother produced her hard little laugh. It had always been dry country and no one born there expected more than a foot of rainfall in a good year. The drought halved that and he could see the metamorphosis of grazing land into desert. The country wanted to turn to sand dunes and rattlesnakes, wanted to scrape off its human ticks. Gilbert didn’t have enough hay to feed his own stock. Everything told him that the day of the rancher was fading, but he dodged admitting it. He blamed the government, he blamed Salt Lake City. The damn Mormons, he said, had seeded the clouds for the Olympics, sucking out all the snow moisture before it reached Wyoming. The ranch-house well was eleven hundred feet deep and the water brackish. In the drought years of the nineteen-thirties and again in the fifties his father had put in earthen dams and stock ponds, and in wet years they had held water but were now silted up and dried and stood as unsightly pits filled with weeds. In the center of one dry hole he piled an immense stack of brush, adding more every year, intending to burn it with the first good snow. He was pestered. Some newcomer wanted a shortcut easement through the ranch to his million-dollar luxury house on the other side. A long-nosed Game and Fish biologist nagged him about fences that blocked the passage of pronghorn. Hunters wanted to shoot his deer. A busybody woman straight out of agricultural school came from the Extension Service one day and lectured him about protecting stream banks from cow-hoof erosion, about pasture rotation to prevent overgrazing. “I heard all that shit. But I’ll tell you what. I let the cows graze where they want and drink where they will. Been doin this for a while. Guess I know somethin about it.” He stood in a truculent posture, legs apart, chin thrust forward. The woman shrugged and left. His wife, Suzzy, had left him to live in Sheridan, sixty miles distant, in the spring of 1977, when the two boys, Monty and Rod, were still young. Those boys were doomed, said Gilbert, smacking his hand on the table for emphasis, to grow up without a father’s guidance and example, injured because they were denied a boy’s life on the ranch. “If he wants a see the kids why can’t he just come into town?” Suzzy said to her mother on the phone after the split. Her complaining voice rose, dipped. “You know I put in years on that ranch, and nothin really worked right. Half the time there wasn’t water and when there was water it was nasty. We couldn’t get in or out in the winter. No telephone, no electricity, no neighbors, his mother always naggin, and the work! He wore me down. ‘Do this, do that,’ bullyin ways. Keep that old house clean? Couldn’t be done. He could a sold the place fifty times over and lived decent if he got a job like a normal human bein, but would he? No. I wouldn’t relive those years for nothin.” Once she had made up her mind to leave, her own stubbornness emerged. But Gilbert refused to agree to a divorce and the separation and enmity dragged on. In town she got a cash-register job at the Big Billy supermarket and as soon as the two boys were old enough to run errands and deliver papers she made them get after-school and weekend jobs as well. She wanted to show them there were better things than cows and debt. The Big Billy job was no good. Not only was the pay low but she disliked having to repeat “Have a nice day” to people who deserved to be ridden bareback by the Devil wearing can openers for spurs, and one day she quit to take a job as a filing clerk in the county treasurer’s office. It gravelled Gilbert that she handled his property-tax and vehicle-registration papers. She wore him down on the divorce and he gave up after a fight in town in her new house. She had bought an old brick mansion with big trees in the yard and an ornamental iron fence around it. In the eighteen-eighties the house had belonged to a Chicago merchant who used it two or three times a year to oversee his ranch investments. Gilbert did not understand how she could afford this house. They had argued, then screamed. Gilbert stood with his legs apart and his arms hanging loose. Another man would have recognized this as a bad sign but she could not stop blaming him, and he, goaded to violence, slapped her a good one and she came at him and yanked out a clump of his hair in the front where it would show, ran to the back of the house, and called the sheriff. When the law came she accused Gilbert of assault, showing the red mark on her cheek as proof. “What about this?” shouted Gilbert, pointing to his bleeding scalp, but Sheriff Brant Smich, his second cousin, ignored him. When the divorce finally came through it was settled that if he wanted the boys to help out on the ranch for a weekend he would have to drive in and fetch them and he would have to pay them for their labor. He had paid practically nothing for child support during the long separation, she said, it was the least he could do. He protested, said he had cancelled checks to prove he had certainly paid adequate if not luxurious support. “Take it to court,” she said, “you think you been treated so bad.” Neither of the boys came willingly to the ranch. They appeared only in times of crisis after Gilbert telephoned Suzzy, demanding their help—spring branding, fence work. They let themselves be dragged out for a weekend then, sulky and grudging. They sassed their grandmother and whispered and snickered when they saw cows bulling. A day’s work was not in them. They wanted only to ride the horses. It was clear to Gilbert that at his death they would sell the place as fast as they could. One day someone would find his stiff corpse out in the pasture, the wire cutters in his hand, or they would find him fallen in the muddy irrigation ditch, as he had found his own father. He would never be able to pass on to them how he felt about the land. His allegiance to the place was not much of a secret, for even outsiders perceived his scalding passion for the ranch. His possessive gaze fell on the pale teeth of distant mountains, on the gullies and washes, the long draw shedding Indian scrapers and arrowheads. His feeling for the ranch was the strongest emotion that had ever moved him, a strangling love tattooed on his heart. It was his. It was as if he had drunk from some magic goblet full of the elixir of ownership. And although the margins of Bull Jump Creek had been trampled bare and muddy by generations of cows, although there were only one or two places along it still flushed with green willow, the destruction had happened so gradually that he had not noticed, for he thought of the ranch as timeless and unchanging in its beauty. It needed only young men to put it right. So his thoughts turned again and again on ways to get his sons to see and love the ranch. In 1982, Monty was fourteen and Rod two years younger. Gilbert, waiting in the truck in front of Suzzy’s house, heard Monty inside bellowing at his mother in his cracking voice, “I don’t want a go. It stinks out there, there’s nothin a do,” and he could not dodge the fact that his sons hated the ranch. In a desperate attempt to make the place more attractive to them he had the power company run out poles and wires, a terrible expense and useless, too, as the boys came no more often. The only benefit, if benefit it was, was the small television set he bought and put in the living room, where he would lie on the sofa under one of his mother’s quilts and watch men wrestling anacondas, riding motorcycles inside enormous wooden barrels. His mother liked the television, but claimed to be shocked by much of what she saw. “It is company, I’ll say that, but where they find them fool people to cut up so I don’t know.” He wasn’t lonely. There was his mother, he was a church deacon, a member of the Cattlemen’s Association, he went to his neighbors’ potluck suppers and barbecues, and about once a month drove to town and got half drunk, bought a woman, and made it back to the ranch before the old haymaker cleared the horizon. He was not a veteran but he knew all the local veterans and often went to the V.F.W. with them to drink and listen to Vietnam stories. He had always taken an interest in Vietnam. He wondered what it was about combat that so changed men, for all of those who had been in school with him, the ones who came back, were marked by what they had seen and endured. He knew them and he didn’t know them. Sedley came back angry and crazy, Russ Fleshman returned as a windbag, Pete Kitchen was reclusive and lived in a horse trailer at the back of the old Kitchen ranch. Something had gone wrong for Willis McNitt, leaving him dead-voiced and troubled. They all referred emotionally to the war, now so many years past, and Fleshman sometimes put his face in his hands and cried. And there were the ones who didn’t come back: Todd Likwartz, Howard Marr, and several he hadn’t known. When Gilbert thought of them a phrase came into his mind—“Now they know what Rhamses knows.” His mother belonged to the generation that had memorized poems in school, and one, “Little Mattie,” on the death of a thirteen-year-old girl, had fastened itself relentlessly in her recall with the tolling line “Now she knows what Rhamses knows.” She quoted from it throughout her life and still sometimes treated her son to a recitation of the entire piece with the stilted emphasis learned so long ago in a little Wyoming schoolhouse. Gilbert Wolfscale listened to the veterans. He wanted to understand what he had missed. It had been the great experience of the time of his young manhood and he had been absent. It was as though the veterans had learned a different language, he thought, listening to Fleshman’s scattershot of didi mau, Agent Orange, beaucoup, Jodies, 105s, Willy-Petes, and K-Bars. He caught at the names—Phu Bai, Khe Sanh, Quang Tri—wondering if these were the Vietnamese equivalents of Rawlins or Thermopolis. The veterans did not seem so much tragic victims as eccentric members of a select club. He felt himself an outsider. They had got the edge on him. One year, Willis McNitt sat behind him at the August rodeo. It was the hottest summer he had ever known. The horses were blowing and their coats white with salty sweat, the bulls stood in the chutes with their heads down and bucked feebly. There had been a freak accident at the stock pens. The rodeo grounds were old, put up in the nineteen-thirties, all wood fence and posts, and somehow a kid watering the roping calves had fallen or been knocked down and mashed his face against a splintery post. A long sliver had run into the flesh below his eyebrow and he had stumbled away from the pens, blood coursing down the back of his hand, which he had put instinctively to the wound. He had not cried out, just stumbled into sight with blood seeping between his fingers, making the crowd gasp. As the ambulance bore him away Gilbert said to no one in particular, “They ought a tear out them damn old wood posts and get good metal.” “I seen somethin like that in Nam,” said Willis behind him in his flat, heavy voice. Willis had a son at the university, studying anthropology. The kid—Coot McNitt—had a half-baked theory that rice cultivation had developed to replace a shortage of maggots in early man’s diet. If you listened to him long enough he’d make you believe it. “We was in a free-fire zone and the kid next a me got shot in the eye. He said, ‘I been shot in the eye,’ said it five or six times, real quiet, like he couldn’t quite take it in. Couldn’t believe it. Then he laid down beside me and commenced a kick and thrash and ever time he kicked the blood pumped up through his eye like a school water fountain.” “God,” said Gilbert. “Did he—?” “Died. A kid, eighteen years old, younger’n Coot. Couldn’t believe he’d been shot. I was nineteen but after that I felt like a old man.” “You ain’t old, Willis. Hell, you’re my age.” “Yeah.” The word dropped like a stone. One day, Gilbert Wolfscale’s mother opened an official-looking letter from the California State Allocation Department. She read that she had inherited a sum of money from someone in that state. All she had to do was fill out the enclosed form, mail it back, and in six or eight weeks she would receive the inheritance. She spent two hours filling out the form, with its demands for address, Social Security number, date of birth, bank-account numbers, and other tedious details. She sat so long at the table with this form that her left leg went to sleep and when she got up to go to the kitchen and make a cup of tea it buckled. She fell and broke her hip. She recuperated very slowly. Even after the break had healed, Gilbert had to drive her in to Sheridan for weekly therapy. He sometimes wondered why she didn’t get one of her friends to drive her. She was always on the phone gabbing with her cronies and most of them still drove. He heard her talking with them about football, which she watched avidly on the television. “I’m for them Bears. I couldn’t never be for them Packers.” When he asked her why she did not arrange a trip to town with Luce or Florence or Helen she said, “They’re not family. Suppose the doctor was to give me bad news. I’d want a be with blood kin, not some other person.” While she was in with the therapist Gilbert walked around the windy town streets rather than sit in a plastic chair in the stuffy waiting room. In a music store he looked at CDs, wondering at the proliferation of bands with trendy, foolish names. Behind a stiff plastic divider labelled “miscellaneous” he found birdcalls, tap dancing, the whistles of steam locomotives from around the world. The last CD was “Remembering Vietnam.” The cover showed a grimy infantryman staring up at a helicopter. The back copy listed “Firefight,” “Shrapnel,” “arvn,” “Jungle Patrol,” “Rain,” “APC Convoy.” He bought it. In the truck driving home his mother said, “I don’t have to go back there but a few more times, looks like, and thanks to heaven. Some a the strangest people settin in that waitin room. These two women got talkin about their Bible class. Sounded pretty modern, you know, tryin a link the Bible to nowadays. But this Bible class they went to was tryin a guess how it would be if Jesus showed up in Sheridan. That got them all excited and there they set, what would he do for work. They both said he could easy find a job workin construction. Would he have his own house and would it be like a trailer or a regular house or a apartment? Then they got at the furniture, what kind a furniture would Jesus pick for his place. And you know how you get thinkin about things you overhear? Wasn’t none a my business but there I set, crazy as they was, wonderin if he’d pick out a maple rockin chair or a sofa with that Scotchgard fabric or what.” A month before her fall his mother had bought some bright-colored kitchen sponges. One of them was purple and she had developed an affection for it, never using it on greasy pots or to wipe up nasty spills. He dribbled coffee on the counter one morning and began to mop at the spill with the distinguished sponge. “What are you doin! Don’t use that—take the pink one. You dunderhead, I’m savin that one.” “For what, Ma?” “For the good glasses.” She meant the crystal wineglasses with the gold rims that had been passed down from Granny Webb and had stood inverted in the china cupboard for as long as he could remember. He had never known them to be used. Inside the china cupboard next to the glasses was a photograph of his father’s mother in a black silk twill dress, looking freeze-dried and mournful. “Where is that stupid mailman?” his mother said, pulling back the curtain and looking for the plume of dust along the road. It was days before he had a chance to listen to the CD. He was on his way to the bank. The soul of leaf susurration, cicadas, crickets, mortars, a calling bird with a voice like a kid hooting down a cardboard tube, snatches of talk, incoming fire, deafening helicopter fibrillation filled the truck. Saturday was grocery day, but his mother said, “I don’t feel up to it. You just get what we need, bread and eggs. Coffee. Whatever else you see that looks good. I don’t have much appetite these days anyhow. And I want a wait for the mail. I’m expectin mail.” He bought the groceries and on the way out of town passed the library. Two miles beyond it he thought of books—books on Vietnam—and he turned around. He came away with three, all they had, read them in bed that night, and fell asleep with a book on his face. He awoke frightened and shouting, thinking something was smothering him. The exhaled moisture from his mouth had formed a round dimple in the page. It was not long after this that his mother began to give way. She would look at him and say, “Where’s Gilbert? Out playin, I bet. I want him to fill up that wood box.” And later she would tell him, “You’ll have to fend for yourself for supper. I can’t cook without no wood.” He felt a pang of guilt, for there had been many times when he was a boy that he had dodged the wood box. But she kept asking if the mail had come until Gilbert, exasperated, said, “You expectin a letter from the President or what?” She shook her head and said nothing. In 1999, Gilbert’s son Monty turned thirty-two, a big dark-haired fellow, still single, who worked as a roofer in Colorado. Gilbert hadn’t seen him in years. Rod, the younger one, lived in Sheridan, a block away from his mother, worked in Buffalo in a video-rental store. He was married and had two children, twin girls, whom Gilbert had seen only once and had never touched nor held. The little girls had never been to the ranch. The boy’s wife, Debra, worked, too, answering the telephone at Equality Cowboy Travel. Gilbert sometimes dreamed that they would have more children—boys—and that these little grandsons would love the ranch, would grow up knowing what a beautiful place the Wolfscales owned. They would love it as he did and take it on when he went. Gilbert’s mother turned eighty-one. The purple sponge, though somewhat faded, was largely unchanged, not to be used. She took to rummaging through the desk looking for pencil and paper, settled on a little notebook, spiral-bound at the top and with lined paper. She spent hours at the kitchen table bent over this notebook, thinking, occasionally scrawling something down or erasing everything, tearing out the spoiled sheet and crumpling it. “What are you writin, Ma? Your biography? Cowgirl poetry?” “No,” she said and put her arm around the notebook so he couldn’t see it, like a child protecting a test paper from a cheating neighbor. On a very cold March day he went into town to the ranch-equipment center; the used aircraft tires he’d ordered for the bush hog were in. If the weather warmed up later in the week he’d work on pulling old sagebrush out of the three-mile pasture. In town the bank thermometer read minus two and a harsh wind made it seem like the freezing pits of Hell. He ordered a pizza. Clouds were moving in as he drove back, eating the cheesy slices, and as he turned in to the ranch the first fine flakes fell through the air. The house was silent. He thought his mother might be napping and went out to the shop, where he changed the bush hog’s tires. The days were growing longer and he worked until twilight. Back in the house he was disturbed by the deep silence. Usually his mother watched crime programs on television at this hour. He went to her room and knocked on the door. “Ma! Ma, you O.K.? I’m goin a start supper now.” There was no answer. He opened the door and saw his mother would not again want any supper. It was a shock to learn that her bank account was at flat zero. He couldn’t understand what she had spent the money on. He remembered her telling him when she broke her hip that she had over six thousand dollars set aside for “—you know.” And he did know. For her funeral costs. He had to scratch to come up with the money for a decent coffin. Cleaning out her room, he came across the spiral-bound notebook. It was filled with plaintive letters to the California State Allocation Department, asking when her inheritance would come. Folded in the front of the notebook was the original letter. He telephoned the number at the bottom of the page but got a message that the number had been disconnected. Gilbert began to guess there was some sort of scam. He called Sheriff Brant Smich, asked him if he knew anything about California State Allocation. “Hell, yes. You get a letter from them sayin about you inherited some money and askin for your bank-account numbers? Don’t believe none of it. Don’t answer them. Bring the letter to the post office. They’re after that outfit for mail fraud.” With his mother gone, civilization began to fall away from him like feathers from a molting hen. In a matter of weeks he was eating straight from the frying pan. As is usual in the ranch world, things went from bad to worse. The drought settled deeper, like a lamprey eel sucking at the region’s vitals. He had half-seen the scores of trucks emblazoned CPC—Consolidated Petroleum Company—speeding along the dusty road for the past year, and knew that they were drilling for coal-bed methane on public land adjacent to his ranch. They pumped the saline wastewater laden with mineral toxins into huge containment pits. The water was no good, he knew that, and it seemed a terrible irony that in such arid country water could be worthless. He had always voted Republican and supported energy development as the best way to make jobs in the hinterland. But when the poison wastewater seeped from the containment pits into the groundwater, into Bull Jump Creek, into his alfalfa irrigation ditches, even into the household well water, he saw it was killing the ranch. He fought back. Like other ranchers who once again felt betrayed by state and federal government, he wrote letters and went to meetings protesting coal-bed methane drilling and the hundreds of service roads and drill rigs and heavy trucks that were tearing up the country. The meetings were strange, for ecological conservationists and crusty ranchers came together in the same room, in agreement for once. He noted with satisfaction that the schoolteacher, Dan Moorhen, a bleeding-heart liberal ecology-minded freak, admitted that ranchers were the best defense against developers chopping up the land, that ranches and ranchers kept the Old West alive. When the gas-company reps or politicians came, the meetings were rancorous and loud and at the end people signed petitions with such force their pens ripped the paper, but it all meant nothing. The drilling continued, the poison water seeped, the grass and sage and alfalfa died. All he could do was hang on to the place. He was unprepared for the telephone call from a neighbor, Fran Bangharmer. It was the morning of the Fourth of July. “Too bad about Suzzy, all that right on the front page, too.” “What do you mean?” he said. “What was on the front page?” “Arrested for embezzlin. Monday’s paper.” “What!” Fran’s voice was subtly triumphant, tinged with Schadenfreude, but Gilbert barely listened, hung up as soon as he could and drove into town to find a three-day-old paper and read for himself that his ex-wife had, for years, been siphoning tax money into a private bank account by a complex series of computer sleights of hand he could not understand. He went to the county jail and tried to see her but was turned away. “She don’t want to see you, Gib, and she’s got that right.” Half of the stores in town were closed for the holiday. Already there were clusters of people along the sidewalk, although the parade didn’t start until one o’clock. In despair he drove down to Buffalo to the video store where Rod worked. It was open, the windows draped with red-white-and-blue ribbons. A huge poster read: “rodeo days! july 4 to 10!” He found his younger son stocking the shelves with gaudy boxes. As he stood behind him he noticed the son’s thinning hair and felt the hot breath of passing time. “Rod?” he said, and the young man turned around. “Dad.” They looked at each other and the son dropped his eyes. Gilbert could smell his son’s after-shave lotion. He himself had never used the stuff in his life. “I came to . . . I want to . . . Well. Your mother?” “Yeah. Do you want a have lunch?” “You mean dinner?” The son flushed at the old-fashioned word. “Yeah. ‘Dinner.’ Go down the KFC and eat in the car.” “I come in the truck. Come on, let’s go.” “I got a tell somebody I’m goin.” That’s what it was like, thought Gilbert, working for somebody else. You had to tell them what you did or were going to do and they could say no. He drove to the fast-food strip at the north end of town, shouted into the drive-through intercom. Sitting in the truck, the windows down and the hot sun burning their arms, they gnawed at the salty, overspiced chicken, huge crumbs falling. They both sucked on straws stuck into vanilla milkshakes. “I tried a see her,” said Gilbert. “She wouldn’t see me.” “She’s still pretty bitter, you know. Feels like her life was wasted, or at least some years of it. She’s that way. She takes a position and that’s it. You can’t argue her out of nothin. She’s stubborn.” “I know that pretty well. How’s it affectin you that your mother is a crook and a jailbird?” He glanced sideways at Rod, seeing the pale, indoor complexion, the clerk’s shirt with creases ironed into the sleeves. The boy had the heavy Wolfscale jaw and beaky nose. “Hell, I don’t know. I don’t think of it that way. People look at me kind a funny but they don’t say nothin. Except Deb. She is gettin a lot a snide comment down at the travel agency. It’s no fun for her. It’s my girls I worry about, if some kid at school this fall is goin a taunt them.” “Kids got short memories. By the time school starts they won’t recall it. What do you think they’ll do to her?” “Probly go pretty light. She’s got a good lawyer. You know, she made restitution of about twelve grand. That’ll count for a lot. They already got a lien on the house, repossessed her car. That’s what she used the most a the money for, buy the house and fix it up. That house was everthing to her. She put in a swimmin pool two years ago.” “I used a wonder how she could afford it. And I heard a couple years ago that she went out to Las Vegas?” He couldn’t believe he’d found a packet of salt beneath the flabby biscuit. Did anyone ever think their chicken not salty enough? “It was a whole bunch a them that work at the county offices. They all went. She won four thousand bucks.” For some reason this remark incensed Gilbert. Rod said it with a tone of pride that his lying, cheating, stealing, double-dealing mother had won some money gambling. He changed the subject abruptly. “What do you hear from your brother?” “Aw, he calls up now and then. We get together with him when we take Arlene down to Denver for her treatment. You know she’s had that cancer. It’s in remission now and you’d never know she’d been sick a day.” Gilbert did not know his granddaughter had been sick a day. He shuddered. In the distance he could hear a school marching band. Buffalo’s parade was starting, or maybe just warming up. “Is he still workin for that roofin contractor?” “Well, no. He’s workin in a restaurant. He’s workin in a Jap restaurant. But he’s healthy, thank God, considerin his—life style.” “What does that mean, his ‘life style’?” Gilbert wiped his hands of the chicken, wadded the napkin, and thrust it into the grease-stained box. “Well, he’s—you know.” “I know what?” “Dad, it’s not up to me to say nothin about Monty.” Rod was folding and crushing the box. He wiped his right hand on his pants leg. “I ain’t heard or seen him for quite a few years. Not likely to. Now what the hell is this about his ‘life style’?” “For Christ sake, Dad. It’s nothin. Just he’s sort a—more—sophisticated. He likes a different kind a stuff than most people come from Wyomin.” “I hear you talkin but I don’t know what you’re sayin.” But he did. As a child Monty had hung around the kitchen and his mother constantly, and to get him to help with chores had been more labor than doing the jobs himself. That is, until Myrl Otter came to work on the ranch on weekends. Myrl was a big blond Scandinavian type, muscular and good-looking. The man’s wife had her work cut out for her keeping an eye on him, as girls flirted with Myrl and he reciprocated willingly. After he came to work on the ranch Monty began to tag after the fellow like a yellowjacket after pears. Gilbert noticed, but as the boy was only seven or eight it seemed just a little kid’s fancy, nothing much. Kids got attached to dogs and blankets and maybe even hired men. He thought nothing of it and after a few months Myrl Otter, in the way of so many ranch hands, stopped showing up for work and Gilbert had forgotten him until now. The marching music, carried by the light wind, seemed nearer. “I better get goin. Don’t want a get tied up in that damn parade.” He got out, threw his chicken box at the trash can. Rod, too, tossed his crumpled box, but it hit the side of the can and sprayed chicken bones. “Forget it,” said Gilbert. “They get paid a pick up.” He dropped Rod back at the video store and headed north, thinking to beat the parade by taking a side street, but he was too late. He stopped for a red light that wouldn’t change and the parade came surging around a corner, passing in front of him, and he had to wait. A section of the high-school band straggled past, sweaty kids, many of them obese, their white marching trousers bunched at the crotch. He remembered schoolmates in his own childhood, skinny, quick ranch kids, no one fat and sweaty, Pete Kitchen looking like he was made of kindling wood and insulation wire, Willis McNitt small enough to shit behind a sagebrush and never be noticed. Behind the band came two teen-age boys dressed as Indians, breechclouts over swim trunks, a load of beads around their necks, black wigs with braids and feathers. One carried a bongo drum, striking it irregularly with his hand. Their skin had been darkened with some streaky substance. Then two men whom he recognized as Sheridan car mechanics slouched along in buckskin suits and fur hats, carrying antique flintlocks. One had a demijohn that he lifted to his lips every thirty seconds, crying “Yee-haw!” The other had a few shiny No. 2 traps over his shoulder. Gilbert could see the hardware-store price tags on them. He knew he was going to get the whole hokey Wild West treatment before he could move. Now came two horses, both bearing kids dressed as cowboys, in heavy woolly chaps, pearl-button Western shirts, limp bandannas, big hats, and boots. Both twirled guns on their fingers, aiming at friends in the crowd. They were followed by a stock outlaw and a sheriff’s posse, and behind them half the town’s women and small children in pioneer regalia—long calico dresses, aprons and sunbonnets, big Nikes flashing incongruously with every step. One of these women was Patty Codenhead and for a moment he was startled at how much she looked like the photograph of his father’s mother in the china cupboard. It was the costume, he thought. The parade came down to a few trick riders in neon satin, and Sedley Alwen, who, crazy or not, was in every public procession showing off his roping skills, stepping in and out of his fluid loops and somehow avoiding the horse manure that marked the path. The last of all was a CPC pickup, three hard-hatted methane-gas workers sitting in back smoking cigarettes and joking with each other. Now he could go. He could go but he found it difficult to step on the accelerator. The light turned green, red, then green again, yet he couldn’t move until drivers behind him began to sound their horns. There had been something wrong with the parade, something seriously wrong, but he couldn’t think what. Driving through the open country on the way back, he forgot the parade and thought about Monty and what form his “sophistication” might take, about his embezzling wife, the other son who had not bothered to tell him that his grandchild had cancer. He couldn’t tell the size of things. He was very thirsty and blamed the salty chicken. The buildings and traffic fell away and he was on the empty road, the dusty sage flying past, the white ground. The sky was a hard cheerful blue, empty but for a few torn contrails. Plastic bags impaled on the barb fences flapped in the hot wind. A small herd of pronghorn in the distance had their heads down. He saw his neighbor’s cattle spread out on the parched land and it came to him that there had been no ranchers in the parade—it was all pioneers, outlaws, Indians, and gas. He knew what kind of furniture Jesus would pick for his place in Wyoming. He would choose a few small pines in the National Forest, go there at night, fell and limb them, debark the sappy rind with a spud, exposing the pale, worm-tunnelled wood, and from the timbers he would make the simplest round-legged furniture, everything pegged, no nails or screws. He wished his mother were still alive. He’d say to her, “One thing sure. He wouldn’t get hisself tangled up with no ranch.” It didn’t come close to saying what he meant but it was all he could do. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Runaway	Carla heard the car coming before it topped the little rise in the road that around here they called a hill. It’s her, she thought. Mrs. Jamieson—Sylvia—home from her holiday in Greece. From the barn door—but far enough inside that she could not easily be seen—she watched the road where Mrs. Jamieson would have to drive by, her place being half a mile farther along than Clark and Carla’s. If it was somebody coming to see them, the car would be slowing down by now. But still Carla hoped. Let it not be her. It was. Mrs. Jamieson turned her head once, quickly—she had all she could do to maneuver her car through the ruts and puddles the rain had made in the gravel—but she didn’t lift a hand off the wheel to wave, she didn’t spot Carla. Carla got a glimpse of a tanned arm bare to the shoulder, hair bleached a lighter color than it had been before, more white now than silver-blond, and an expression that was both exasperated and amused at her own exasperation—just the way Mrs. Jamieson would look negotiating this road. When she turned her head there was something like a bright flash—of inquiry, of hopefulness—that made Carla shrink back. So. Maybe Clark didn’t know yet. If he was sitting at the computer, he would have his back to the window and the road. But he would have to know before long. Mrs. Jamieson might have to make another trip—for groceries, perhaps. He might see her then. And after dark the lights of her house would show. But this was July and it didn’t get dark till late. She might be so tired that she wouldn’t bother with the lights; she might go to bed early. On the other hand, she might telephone. Anytime now. This was the summer of rain and more rain. They heard it first thing in the morning, loud on the roof of the mobile home. The trails were deep in mud, the long grass soaking, leaves overhead sending down random showers even in those moments when there was no actual downpour from the sky. Carla wore a wide-brimmed old Australian felt hat every time she went outside, and tucked her long thick braid down her shirt. Nobody showed up for trail rides—even though Clark and Carla had gone around posting signs at all the campsites, in the cafés, and on the tourist-office bulletin board, and anywhere else they could think of. Only a few pupils were coming for lessons, and those were regulars, not the batches of schoolchildren on vacation or the busloads from summer camps that had kept them going the summer before. And even the regulars took time off for holiday trips, or simply cancelled their lessons because of the weather. If they called too late, Clark charged them anyway. A couple of them had argued, and quit for good. There was still some income from the three horses that were boarded. Those three, and the four of their own, were out in the field now, poking disconsolately in the grass under the trees. Carla had finished mucking out in the barn. She had taken her time—she liked the rhythm of her regular chores, the high space under the barn roof, the smells. Now she went over to the exercise ring to see how dry the ground was, in case the five-o’clock pupil did show up. Most of the steady showers had not been particularly heavy, but last week there had come a sudden stirring and then a blast through the treetops and a nearly horizontal blinding rain. The storm had lasted only a quarter of an hour, but branches still lay across the road, hydro lines were down, and a large chunk of the plastic roofing over the ring had been torn loose. There was a puddle like a lake at that end of the track, and Clark had worked until after dark digging a channel to drain it away. On the Web, right now, he was hunting for a place to buy roofing. Some salvage outlet, with prices that they could afford, or somebody trying to get rid of such material, secondhand. He would not go to Hy and Robert Buckley’s Building Supply in town, which he called Highway Robbers Buggery Supply, because he owed them money and had had a fight with them. Clark often had fights, and not just with the people he owed money to. His friendliness, compelling at first, could suddenly turn sour. There were places in town that he would not go into, because of some row. The drugstore was one such place. An old woman had pushed in front of him—that is, she had gone to get something she’d forgotten and come back and pushed in front, rather than going to the end of the line, and he had complained, and the cashier had said to him, “She has emphysema.” Clark had said, “Is that so? I have piles myself,” and the manager had been summoned to tell him that that remark was uncalled for. And in the coffee shop out on the highway the advertised breakfast discount had not been allowed, because it was past eleven o’clock in the morning, and Clark had argued and then dropped his takeout cup of coffee on the floor—just missing, so they said, a child in its stroller. He claimed that the child was half a mile away and he’d dropped the cup because no sleeve had been provided. They said that he hadn’t asked for a sleeve. He said that he shouldn’t have had to ask. Et cetera. “You flare up,” Carla said. “That’s what men do.” She had not dared say anything about his row with Joy Tucker, whom he now referred to as Joy-Fucker. Joy was the librarian from town who boarded her horse with them, a quick-tempered little chestnut mare named Lizzie. Joy Tucker, when she was in a jokey mood, called her Lizzie Borden. Yesterday, she had driven out, not in a jokey mood at all, and complained about the roof’s not being fixed and Lizzie looking so miserable, as if she might have caught a chill. There was nothing the matter with Lizzie, actually. Clark had even tried—for him—to be placating. But then it was Joy Tucker who flared up and said that their place was a dump, and Lizzie deserved better, and Clark said, “Suit yourself.” Joy had not—or not yet—removed Lizzie, but Clark, who had formerly made the mare his pet, refused to have anything more to do with her. The worst thing, as far as Carla was concerned, was the absence of Flora, the little white goat who kept the horses company in the barn and in the fields. There had been no sign of her for two days, and Carla was afraid that wild dogs or coyotes had got her, or even a bear. She had dreamed of Flora last night and the night before. In the first dream, Flora had walked right up to the bed with a red apple in her mouth, but in the second dream—last night—she had run away when she saw Carla coming. Her leg seemed to be hurt, but she ran anyway. She led Carla to a barbed-wire barricade of the kind that might belong on some battlefield, and then she—Flora—slipped through it, hurt leg and all, just slithered through like a white eel and disappeared. Up until three years ago, Carla had never really looked at mobile homes. She hadn’t called them that, either. Like her parents, she would have thought the term “mobile home” pretentious. Some people lived in trailers, and that was all there was to it. One trailer was no different from another. When she moved in here, when she chose this life with Clark, she began to see things in a new way. After that, it was only the mobile homes that she really looked at, to see how people had fixed them up—the kind of curtains they had hung, the way they had painted the trim, the ambitious decks or patios or extra rooms they had built on. She could hardly wait to get to such improvements herself. Clark had gone along with her ideas for a while. He had built new steps, and spent a lot of time looking for an old wrought-iron railing for them. He hadn’t complained about the money spent on paint for the kitchen and bathroom or the material for curtains. What he did balk at was tearing up the carpet, which was the same in every room and the thing that she had most counted on replacing. It was divided into small brown squares, each with a pattern of darker brown, rust, and tan squiggles and shapes. For a long time, she had thought that the same squiggles and shapes were arranged the same way in each square. Then, when she had had more time, a lot of time, to examine them, she decided that there were four patterns joined together to make identical larger squares. Sometimes she could pick out the arrangement easily and sometimes she had to work to see it. She did this at times when Clark’s mood had weighted down all their indoor space. The best thing then was to invent or remember some job to do in the barn. The horses would not look at her when she was unhappy, but Flora, who was never tied up, would come and rub against her, and look up with an expression that was not quite sympathy; it was more like comradely mockery in her shimmering yellow-green eyes. Flora had been a half-grown kid when Clark brought her home from a farm where he’d gone to bargain for some horse tackle. He had heard that a goat was able to put horses at ease and he wanted to try it. At first she had been Clark’s pet entirely, following him everywhere, dancing for his attention. She was as quick and graceful and provocative as a kitten, and her resemblance to a guileless girl in love had made them both laugh. But as she grew older she seemed to attach herself to Carla, and in this attachment she was suddenly much wiser, less skittish—she seemed capable, instead, of a subdued and ironic sort of humor. Carla’s behavior with the horses was tender and strict and rather maternal, but the comradeship with Flora was quite different. Flora allowed her no sense of superiority. “Still no sign of Flora?” she said as she pulled off her barn boots. Clark had posted a “lost goat” notice on the Web. “Not so far,” he said, in a preoccupied but not unfriendly voice. He suggested, not for the first time, that Flora might have just gone off to find herself a billy. No word about Mrs. Jamieson. Carla put the kettle on. Clark was humming to himself as he often did when he sat in front of the computer. Sometimes he talked back to it. “Bullshit,” he might say, replying to some challenge. He laughed occasionally, but rarely remembered what the joke was when she asked him afterward. Carla called, “Do you want tea?” And to her surprise he got up and came into the kitchen. “So,” he said. “So, Carla.” “What?” “So she phoned.” “Who?” “Her majesty. Queen Sylvia. She just got back.” “I didn’t hear the car.” “I didn’t ask you if you did.” “So what did she phone for?” “She wants you to go and help her straighten up the house. That’s what she said. Tomorrow.” “What did you tell her?” “I told her sure. But you’d better phone up and confirm.” Carla said, “Why do I have to, if you told her?” She poured their mugs of tea. “I cleaned up her house before she left. I don’t see what there could be to do so soon.” “Maybe some coons got in and made a mess of it while she was gone. You never know.” “I don’t have to phone her right this minute. I want to drink my tea and I want to take a shower.” “The sooner the better.” Carla took her tea into the bathroom. “We have to go to the laundromat. When the towels dry out, they still smell moldy.” “We’re not changing the subject, Carla.” Even after she’d got in the shower, he stood outside the door and called to her. “I am not going to let you off the hook, Carla.” She thought he might still be standing there when she came out, but he was back at the computer. She dressed as if she were going to town—she hoped that if they could get out of there, go to the laundromat, get a takeout at the cappuccino place, they might be able to talk in a different way, some release might be possible. She went into the living room with a brisk step and put her arms around him from behind. But as soon as she did that a wave of grief swallowed her up—it must have been the heat of the shower, loosening her tears—and she bent over him, crumbling and crying. He took his hands off the keyboard but sat still. “Just don’t be mad at me,” she said. “I’m not mad. I hate when you’re like this, that’s all.” “I’m like this because you’re mad.” “Don’t tell me what I am. You’re choking me. Go and get control of yourself. Start supper.” That was what she did. It was obvious by now that the five-o’clock person wasn’t coming. She got out the potatoes and started to peel them, but her tears would not stop. She wiped her face with a paper towel and tore off a fresh one to take with her and went out into the rain. She didn’t go into the barn because it was too miserable in there without Flora. She walked along the lane back to the woods. The horses were in the other field. They came over to the fence to watch her, but all except Lizzie, who capered and snorted a bit, had the sense to understand that her attention was elsewhere. It had started when they read the obituary, Mr. Jamieson’s obituary, in the city paper. Until the year before, they had known the Jamiesons only as neighbors who kept to themselves. She taught botany at the college forty miles away, so she had to spend a good deal of her time on the road. He was a poet. But for a poet, and for an old man—perhaps twenty years older than Mrs. Jamieson—he was rugged and active. He improved the drainage system on his place, cleaning out the culvert and lining it with rocks. He dug and planted and fenced a vegetable garden, cut paths through the woods, looked after repairs on the house—not just the sort of repairs that almost any house owner could manage after a while but those that involved plumbing, wiring, roofing, too. When they read the obituary, Carla and Clark learned for the first time that Leon Jamieson had been the recipient of a large prize five years before his death. A prize for poetry. Shortly afterward, Clark said, “We could’ve made him pay.” Carla knew at once what he was talking about, but she took it as a joke. “Too late now,” she said. “You can’t pay once you’re dead.” “He can’t. She could.” “She’s gone to Greece.” “She’s not going to stay in Greece.” “She didn’t know,” Carla said more soberly. “She didn’t have anything to do with it.” “I didn’t say she did.” “She doesn’t have a clue about it.” “We could fix that.” Carla said, “No. No.” Clark went on as if she hadn’t spoken. “We could say we’re going to sue. People get money for stuff like that all the time.” “How could you do that? You can’t sue a dead person.” “Threaten to go to the papers. Big-time poet. The papers would eat it up. All we have to do is threaten and she’d cave in. How much are we going to ask for?” “You’re just fantasizing,” Carla said. “You’re joking.” “No. Actually, I’m not.” Carla said that she didn’t want to talk about it anymore, and he said O.K. But they talked about it the next day, and the next, and the next. He sometimes got notions like this, which were not practicable, which might even be illegal. He talked about them with growing excitement and then—she wasn’t sure why—he dropped them. If the rain had stopped, if this had turned into a normal summer, he might have let this idea go the way of the others. But that had not happened, and during the last month he had harped on about the scheme as if it were perfectly feasible. The question was how much money to ask for. Too little and the woman might not take them seriously; she might think they were bluffing. Too much might get her back up and she might become stubborn. Carla had stopped pretending she thought he was joking. Instead, she told him that it wouldn’t work. She said that, for one thing, people expected poets to behave that way. So it wouldn’t be worth paying out money to cover it up. “How do you know?” Clark said. He said that it would work if it was done right. Carla was to break down and tell Mrs. Jamieson the whole story. Then Clark would move in, as if it had all been a surprise to him, he had just found out. He would be outraged; he would talk about telling the world. He would let Mrs. Jamieson be the one who first mentioned money. “You were injured. You were molested and humiliated and I was injured and humiliated because you are my wife. It’s a question of respect.” Over and over again he talked to her in this way. She tried to deflect him, but he insisted. “Promise,” he said. “Promise.” All this was because of what she had told him—things she could not now retract or deny. Sometimes he gets interested in me? The old guy? Sometimes he calls me into the room when she’s not there? When she has to go out shopping and the nurse isn’t there, either? A lucky inspiration of hers, one that instantly pleased him. So what do you do then? Do you go in? She played shy. Sometimes. He calls you into his room. So? Carla? So, then? I go in to see what he wants. So what does he want? This was asked and told in whispers, even when there was nobody to hear, even when they were in the neverland of their bed. A bedtime story, in which the details were important and had to be added to each time, with convincing reluctance, shyness, giggles. (Dirty, dirty.) And it was not only he who was eager and grateful. She was, too. Eager to please and excite him, to excite herself. Grateful every time that it still worked. And in one part of her mind it was true: she saw the randy old man, the bump he made in the sheet, bedridden, almost beyond speech but proficient in sign language, indicating his desire, trying to nudge and finger her into complicity, into obliging stunts and intimacies. (Her refusal a necessity, but also, perhaps, strangely, slightly disappointing to Clark.) Now and then came an image that she had to hammer down lest it spoil everything. She would think of the real dim and sheeted body, drugged and shrinking every day in its hospital bed, glimpsed only a few times, when Mrs. Jamieson or the visiting nurse had neglected to close the door. She herself never actually coming closer to him than that. In fact, she had dreaded going to the Jamiesons’, but she needed the money, and she felt sorry for Mrs. Jamieson, who seemed so haunted and bewildered, as if she were walking in her sleep. Once or twice, Carla had burst out and done something really silly just to loosen up the atmosphere. The kind of thing she did when clumsy and terrified riders were feeling humiliated. She used to try it, too, when Clark was stuck in his moods. It didn’t work with him anymore. But the story about Mr. Jamieson had worked, decisively. At the house there was nothing for Sylvia to do except open the windows. And think—with an eagerness that dismayed without really surprising her—of how soon she could see Carla. All the paraphernalia of illness had been removed. The room that had been Sylvia and her husband’s bedroom and then his death chamber had been cleaned out and tidied up to look as if nothing had ever happened in it. Carla had helped with all that, during the few frenzied days between the crematorium and the departure for Greece. Every piece of clothing Leon had ever worn and some things he hadn’t, some gifts from his sisters that had never been taken out of their packages, had been piled in the back seat of the car and taken to the thrift shop. His pills, his shaving things, unopened cans of the fortified drink that had sustained him as long as anything could, cartons of the sesame-seed snaps that had at one time been his favorite snack, the plastic bottles full of the lotion that had eased his back, the sheepskins on which he had lain—all of that was dumped into plastic bags to be hauled away as garbage, and Carla didn’t question a thing. She never said, “Maybe somebody could use that,” or pointed out that whole cartons of cans were unopened. When Sylvia said, “I wish I hadn’t taken the clothes to town. I wish I’d burned them all up in the incinerator,” Carla showed no surprise. They cleaned the oven, scrubbed out the cupboards, wiped down the walls and the windows. One day Sylvia sat in the living room going through all the condolence letters she had received. (There was no accumulation of papers and notebooks to be attended to, as you might have expected with a writer, no unfinished work or scribbled drafts. He had told her, months before, that he had pitched everything. And no regrets.) The sloping south wall of the house was mostly big windows. Sylvia looked up, surprised by the watery sunlight that had come out—or possibly by the shadow of Carla on top of a ladder, bare-legged, bare-armed, her resolute face crowned with a frizz of dandelion hair that was too short for her braid. She was vigorously spraying and scrubbing the glass. When she saw Sylvia looking at her, she stopped and flung out her arms as if she were splayed there, making a preposterous gargoyle-like face. They both began to laugh. Sylvia felt this laughter running through her like a sweet stream. She turned back to her letters and soon decided that all these kind, genuine, or perfunctory words, the tributes and the regrets, could go the way of the sheepskins and the crackers. When she heard Carla taking the ladder down, heard boots on the deck, she was suddenly shy. She sat where she was with her head bowed as Carla came into the room and passed behind her, on her way to the kitchen to put the pail and the paper towels back under the sink. She hardly halted—she was quick as a bird—but she managed to drop a kiss on Sylvia’s bent head. Then she went on. She was whistling something to herself, perhaps had been whistling the whole time. That kiss had been in Sylvia’s mind ever since. It meant nothing in particular. It meant Cheer up. Or Almost done. It meant that they were good friends who had got through a lot of depressing work together. Or maybe just that the sun had come out. That Carla was thinking of getting home to her horses. Nevertheless, Sylvia saw it as a bright blossom, its petals spreading inside her with a tumultuous heat, like a menopausal flash. Every so often there had been a special girl student in one of her classes—one whose cleverness and dedication and awkward egotism, or even genuine passion for the natural world, reminded her of her young self. Such girls hung around her worshipfully, hoped for some sort of intimacy they could not—in most cases—imagine, and soon got on her nerves. Carla was nothing like them. If she resembled anybody in Sylvia’s life, it would have to be certain girls she had known in high school—those who were bright but not too bright, easy athletes but not competitive, buoyant but not rambunctious. Naturally happy. The day after Sylvia’s return, she was speaking to Carla about Greece. “Where I was, this little tiny village with my two old friends, well, it was the sort of place where the very occasional tourist bus would stop, as if it had got lost, and the tourists would get off and look around and they were absolutely bewildered because they weren’t anywhere. There was nothing to buy.” The large-limbed, uncomfortable, dazzling girl was sitting there at last, in the room that had been filled with thoughts of her. She was faintly smiling, belatedly nodding. “And at first I was bewildered, too. It was so hot. But it’s true about the light. It’s wonderful. And then I figured out what there was to do. There were just these few simple things, but they could fill the day. You walk half a mile down the road to buy some oil, and half a mile in the other direction to buy your bread or your wine, and that’s the morning. Then you eat some lunch under the trees, and after lunch it’s too hot to do anything but close the shutters and lie on your bed and maybe read. Later on, you notice that the shadows are longer and you get up and go for a swim. Oh,” she interrupted herself. “Oh, I forgot.” She jumped up and went to get the present she had brought, which in fact she had not forgotten about at all. She had not wanted to hand it to Carla right away—she had wanted the moment to come more naturally, and while she was speaking she had thought ahead to the moment when she could mention the sea, going swimming. And then say, as she now said, “Swimming reminded me of this because it’s a little replica, you know, it’s a little replica of the horse they found under the sea. Cast in bronze. They dredged it up, after all this time. It’s supposed to be from the second century B.C.” When Carla had come in and looked around for work to do, Sylvia had said, “Oh, just sit down a minute. I haven’t had anybody to talk to since I got back. Please.” Carla had sat down on the edge of a chair, legs apart, hands between her knees, looking somehow desolate. As if reaching for some distant politeness, she had said, “How was Greece?” Now she was standing, with the tissue paper crumpled around the horse, which she had not fully unwrapped. “It’s said to represent a racehorse,” Sylvia said. “Making that final spurt, the last effort in a race. The rider, too—the boy—you can see that he’s urging the horse on to the limit of its strength.” She did not mention that the boy had made her think of Carla, and she could not now have said why. He was only ten or eleven years old. Maybe the strength and grace of the arm that must have held the reins, or the wrinkles in his childish forehead, the absorption and the pure effort there. It was, in some way, like Carla cleaning the windows last spring. Her strong legs in her shorts, her broad shoulders, her big dedicated swipes at the glass, and then the way she had splayed herself out as a joke, inviting or even commanding Sylvia to laugh. “You can see that,” Carla said, conscientiously now examining the little bronzy-green statue. “Thank you very much.” “You are welcome. Let’s have coffee, shall we? I’ve just made some. The coffee in Greece was strong, a little stronger than I liked, but the bread was heavenly. Sit down another moment, please do. You should stop me going on and on this way. What about here? How has life been here?” “It’s been raining most of the time.” “I can see that. I can see it has,” Sylvia called from the kitchen end of the big room. Pouring the coffee, she decided that she would keep quiet about the other gift she had brought. It hadn’t cost her anything (the horse had cost more than the girl could probably guess); it was only a beautiful small pinkish-white stone that she had picked up on the road. “This is for Carla,” she had said to her friend Maggie, who was walking beside her. “I know it’s silly. I just want her to have a tiny piece of this land.” Sylvia had already mentioned Carla to Maggie, and to Soraya, her other friend there—telling them how the girl’s presence had come to mean more and more to her, how an indescribable bond had seemed to grow up between them, and had consoled her in the awful months of last spring. “It was just to see somebody—somebody so fresh and full of health coming into the house.” Maggie and Soraya had laughed in a kindly but annoying way. “There’s always a girl,” Soraya said, with an indolent stretch of her heavy brown arms, and Maggie said, “We all come to it sometime. A crush on a girl.” Sylvia was obscurely angered by that dated word—“crush.” “Maybe it’s because Leon and I never had children,” she said. “It’s stupid. Displaced maternal love.” But the girl was not, today, anything like the Carla that Sylvia had been remembering, not at all the calm, bright spirit, the carefree and generous creature who had kept her company in Greece. She had been almost sullen about her gift. Almost sullen as she reached out for her mug of coffee. “There was one thing I thought you would have liked a lot,” Sylvia said energetically. “The goats. They were quite small even when they were full grown. Some spotty and some white, and they were leaping around on the rocks just like—really like the spirits of the place.” She laughed, in an artificial way; she couldn’t stop herself. “I wouldn’t be surprised if they’d had wreaths on their horns. How is your little goat? I forget her name.” Carla said, “Flora.” “Flora.” “She’s gone.” “Gone? Did you sell her?” “She disappeared. We don’t know where.” “Oh, I’m sorry. I’m sorry. But isn’t there a chance she’ll turn up again?” No answer. Sylvia looked directly at the girl—something that up to now she had not quite been able to do. She saw that her eyes were full of tears, her face blotchy—in fact, it seemed grubby—and that she was bloated with distress. Carla didn’t do anything to avoid Sylvia’s look. She drew her lips tight over her teeth and shut her eyes and rocked back and forth as if in a soundless howl and then, shockingly, she did howl. She howled and wept and gulped for air, and tears ran down her cheeks and snot out of her nostrils, and she began to look around wildly for something to wipe with. Sylvia ran and got handfuls of Kleenex. “Don’t worry, here you are, here, you’re all right,” she said, thinking that maybe she should take the girl in her arms. But she had not the least wish to do that, and it might make things worse. The girl might feel how little Sylvia wanted to do that, how appalled she was, in fact, by this fit. Carla said something, said the same thing again. “Awful,” she said. “Awful.” “No, it’s not. We all have to cry sometimes. It’s all right, don’t worry.” “It’s awful.” And Sylvia could not help feeling that, with every moment of this show of misery, the girl made herself more ordinary, more like one of those soggy students in her—Sylvia’s—office. Some of them cried about their marks—but that was often tactical, a brief, unconvincing bit of whimpering. The less frequent, real waterworks always turned out to have something to do with a love affair, or their parents, or a pregnancy. “It’s not about your goat, is it?” No. No. “Then what is it?” Carla said, “I can’t stand it anymore.” What could she not stand? It turned out to be the husband. He was mad at her all the time. He acted as if he hated her. There was nothing she could do right; there was nothing she could say. Living with him was driving her crazy. Sometimes she thought she already was crazy. “Has he hurt you, Carla?” No. He hadn’t hurt her physically. But he hated her. He despised her. He could not stand it when she cried and she could not help crying because he was so mad. She did not know what to do. “Perhaps you do know what to do,” Sylvia said. “Get away? I would if I could,” Carla began to wail again. “I’d give anything to get away. I can’t. I haven’t any money. I haven’t anywhere in this world to go.” “Well. Think. Is that altogether true?” Sylvia said in her best counselling manner. “Don’t you have parents? Didn’t you tell me you grew up in Kingston? Don’t you have a family there?” Her parents had moved to British Columbia. They hated Clark. When she ran away and got married, they didn’t care if she lived or died. Brothers or sisters? One brother, nine years older. He was married and in Toronto. He didn’t care, either. He didn’t like Clark. His wife was a sickening snob. “Have you ever thought of the women’s shelter?” “They don’t want you there unless you’ve been beaten up. And everybody would find out and it would be bad for our business.” Sylvia smiled gently. “Is this a time to think about that?” Then Carla actually laughed. “I know,” she said. “I’m insane.” “Listen,” Sylvia said. “Listen to me. If you had the money to go, where would you go? What would you do?” “I would go to Toronto,” Carla said, readily enough. “But I wouldn’t go near my brother. I’d stay in a motel or something and I’d get a job at a riding stable.” “You think you could do that?” “I was working at a riding stable the summer I met Clark. I’m more experienced now than I was then. A lot more.” “And all that’s stopping you is lack of money?” Carla took a deep breath. “All that’s stopping me,” she said. “All right,” Sylvia said. “Now, listen to what I propose. I don’t think you should go to a motel. I think you should take the bus to Toronto and go to stay with a friend of mine. Her name is Ruth Stiles. She has a big house and she lives alone and she won’t mind having somebody to stay. You can stay there till you find a job. I’ll help you with some money. There must be lots of riding stables around Toronto.” “There are.” “So what do you think? Do you want me to phone and find out what time the bus goes?” Carla said yes. She was shivering. She ran her hands up and down her thighs and shook her head roughly from side to side. “I can’t believe it,” she said. “I’ll pay you back. I mean, thank you. I’ll pay you back. I don’t know what to say.” Sylvia was already at the phone, dialling the bus depot. “Sh-h-h, I’m getting the times,” she said. She listened and hung up. “I know you will. You agree about Ruth’s? I’ll let her know. There’s one problem, though.” She looked critically at Carla’s shorts and T-shirt. “You can’t very well go in those clothes.” “I can’t go home to get anything,” Carla said in a panic. “I’ll be all right.” “The bus will be air-conditioned. You’ll freeze. There must be something of mine you could wear. Aren’t we about the same height?” “You’re ten times skinnier,” Carla said. “I didn’t use to be.” In the end, they decided on a brown linen jacket, hardly worn—Sylvia had considered it to be a mistake for herself, the style too brusque—and a pair of tailored tan pants and a cream-colored silk shirt. Carla’s sneakers would have to do, because her feet were two sizes larger then Sylvia’s. Carla went to take a shower—something she had not bothered with, in her state of mind that morning—and Sylvia phoned Ruth. Ruth was going to be out at a meeting that evening, but she would leave the key with her upstairs tenants and all Carla would have to do was ring their bell. “She’ll have to take a cab from the bus depot, though. I assume she’s O.K. to manage that?” Ruth said. Sylvia laughed. “She’s not a lame duck, don’t worry. She is just a person in a bad situation, the way it happens.” “Well, good. I mean, good she’s getting out.” “Not a lame duck at all,” Sylvia said, thinking of Carla trying on the tailored pants and linen jacket. How quickly the young recover from a fit of despair and how handsome the girl had looked in the fresh clothes. The bus would stop in town at twenty past two. Sylvia decided to make omelettes for lunch, to set the table with the dark-blue cloth, and to get down the crystal glasses and open a bottle of wine. “I hope you can eat something,” she said, when Carla came out clean and shining in her borrowed clothes. Her softly freckled skin was flushed from the shower and her hair was damp and darkened, out of its braid, the sweet frizz now flat against her head. She said that she was hungry, but when she tried to get a forkful of the omelette to her mouth her trembling hands made it impossible. “I don’t know why I’m shaking like this,” she said. “I must be excited. I never knew it would be this easy.” “It’s very sudden,” Sylvia said judiciously. “Probably it doesn’t seem quite real.” “It does, though. Everything now seems really real. It’s like the time before—that’s when I was in a daze.” “Maybe when you make up your mind to something, when you really make up your mind, that’s how it is. Or that’s how it should be. Easy.” “If you’ve got a friend,” Carla said with a self-conscious smile and a flush spreading over her forehead. “If you’ve got a true friend. I mean, like you.” She laid down the knife and fork and raised her wineglass with both hands. “Drinking to a true friend,” she said, uncomfortably. “I probably shouldn’t even take a sip, but I will.” “Me, too,” Sylvia said with a pretense of gaiety, but she spoiled the moment by saying, “Are you going to phone him? Or what? He’ll have to know. At least he’ll have to know where you are by the time he’d be expecting you home.” “Not the phone,” Carla said, alarmed. “I can’t do it. Maybe if you—” “No,” Sylvia said. “No.” “No, that’s stupid of me. I shouldn’t have said that. It’s just hard to think straight. What I maybe should do is put a note in the mailbox. But I don’t want him to get it too soon. I don’t want us to even drive past there when we’re going into town. I want to go the back way. So if I write it—if I write it, could you, could you maybe slip it in the box when you come back?” Sylvia agreed to this, seeing no good alternative. She brought pen and paper and poured a little more wine. Carla sat thinking, then wrote a few words. I have gone away. I will be all write. These were the words that Sylvia read when she unfolded the paper on her way back from the bus station. She was sure that Carla knew “right” from “write.” It was just that she had been talking about writing a note and she was in a state of exalted confusion. More confusion perhaps than Sylvia had realized. The wine had brought out a stream of talk, but it had not seemed to be accompanied by any particular grief or upset. She had talked about the horse barn where she had worked when she was eighteen and just out of high school—that was where she’d met Clark. Her parents had wanted her to go to college, and she had agreed, as long as she could choose to be a veterinarian. She had been one of those dorky girls in high school, one of those girls they made rotten jokes about, but she didn’t care. All she really wanted, and had wanted all her life, was to work with animals and live in the country. Clark was the best riding teacher they had—and good-looking, too. Scads of women were after him—they would take up riding just to get him as their teacher. She had teased him about this, and at first he seemed to like it, but then he got annoyed. She tried to make up for it by getting him talking about his dream—his plan, really—to have a riding school, a horse stable, someplace out in the country. One day, she came in to work and saw him hanging up his saddle and realized that she had fallen in love with him. Maybe it was just sex. It was probably just sex. When fall came and she was supposed to leave for college, she refused to go. She said she needed a year off. Clark was very smart, but he hadn’t waited even to finish high school, and he had altogether lost touch with his family. He thought families were like a poison in your blood. He had been an attendant in a mental hospital, a disk jockey on a radio station in Lethbridge, Alberta, a member of a road crew near Thunder Bay, an apprentice barber, a salesman in an Army-surplus store. And those were only the jobs he had told her about. She had nicknamed him Gypsy Rover, because of the song, an old song her mother used to sing. And she took to singing it around the house all the time, till her mother knew something was up. Last night she slept on a goose-feather bed With silken sheets for cover. Tonight she’ll sleep on the cold cold ground— Beside her gypsy lo-ov-ver. Her mother had said, “He’ll break your heart, that’s a sure thing.” Her stepfather, who was an engineer, did not even grant Clark that much power. “A loser,” he called him. “A drifter.” He said this as if Clark were a bug he could just whisk off his clothes. Carla said, “Does a drifter save up enough money to buy a farm, which, by the way, he has done?” He said, “I’m not about to argue with you.” She was not his daughter, anyway, he added, as if that were the clincher. So, naturally, Carla had had to run away with him. The way her parents behaved, they were practically guaranteeing it. “Will you get in touch with your parents after you’re settled?” Sylvia asked. “In Toronto?” Carla raised her eyebrows, pulled in her cheeks, and made a saucy O of her mouth. She said, “Nope.” Definitely a little bit drunk. Back home, having left the note in the mailbox, Sylvia cleaned up the dishes that were still on the table, washed and polished the omelette pan, threw the blue napkins and tablecloth in the laundry basket, and opened the windows. She did this with a confusing sense of regret and irritation. She had put out a fresh cake of apple-scented soap for the girl’s shower and the smell of it lingered in the house, as it had in the air of the car. Sometime in the last hour or so the rain had stopped. She could not stay still, so she went for a walk along the path that Leon had cleared. The gravel he had dumped in the boggy places had mostly washed away. They used to go walking every spring to hunt for wild orchids. She taught him the name of every wildflower—all of which, except for trillium, he forgot. He called her his Dorothy Wordsworth. Last spring, she had gone out once, and picked him a bunch of dogtooth violets, but he had looked at them—as he sometimes looked at her—with mere exhaustion, disavowal. She kept seeing Carla, Carla stepping onto the bus. Her thanks had been sincere but already almost casual, her wave jaunty. She had got used to her salvation. Around six o’clock, Sylvia put in a call to Toronto, to Ruth, knowing that Carla probably wouldn’t have arrived yet. She got the answering machine. “Ruth,” Sylvia said. “Sylvia. It’s about this girl I sent you. I hope she doesn’t turn out to be a bother to you. I hope it’ll be all right. You may find her a little full of herself. Maybe it’s just youth. Let me know. O.K.? O.K. Bye-bye.” She phoned again before she went to bed but got the machine, so she said, “Sylvia again. Just checking,” and hung up. It was between nine and ten o’clock, not even really dark. Ruth would still be out, and the girl would not want to pick up the phone in a strange house. She tried to think of the name of Ruth’s upstairs tenants. They surely wouldn’t have gone to bed yet. But she could not remember it. And just as well. Phoning them would have been going too far. She got into bed, but it was impossible, so she took a light quilt and went out to the living room and lay down on the sofa, where she had slept for the last three months of Leon’s life. She did not think it likely that she would get to sleep there, either—there were no curtains on the huge south windows and she could tell by the sky that the moon had risen, though she could not see it. The next thing she knew she was on a bus somewhere—in Greece?—with a lot of people she did not know, and the engine of the bus was making an alarming knocking sound. She woke to find that the knocking was at her front door. Carla? Carla had kept her head down until the bus was clear of town. The windows were tinted, nobody could see in, but she had to guard herself against seeing out. Lest Clark appear. Coming out of a store or waiting to cross the street, ignorant of her abandonment, thinking this an ordinary afternoon. No: thinking it the afternoon when their scheme—his scheme—had been put in motion, eager to know how far she had got with it. Once they were out in the country, she looked up, breathed deeply, took account of the violet-tinted fields. Mrs. Jamieson’s presence had surrounded her with a kind of remarkable safety and sanity, had made her escape seem the most rational thing you could imagine—in fact, the only self-respecting thing that a person in Carla’s shoes could do. Carla had felt herself capable of an unaccustomed confidence, even a mature sense of humor. She had revealed her life to Mrs. Jamieson in a way that seemed bound to gain sympathy and yet to be ironic and truthful. And adapted to live up to what, as far as she could see, were Mrs. Jamieson’s—Sylvia’s—expectations. The sun was shining, as it had been for some time. At lunch, it had made the wineglasses sparkle. And there was enough of a wind blowing to lift the roadside grass, the flowering weeds, out of their drenched clumps. Summer clouds, not rain clouds, were scudding across the sky. The whole countryside was changing, shaking itself loose, into the true brightness of a July day. And as they sped along she didn’t see much trace of the recent past—no big puddles in the fields, showing where the seed had washed out, no miserable spindly cornstalks or lodged grain. It occurred to her that she should tell Clark about this—that perhaps they had chosen what was, for some freakish reason, a very wet and dreary corner of the country, and there were other places where they could have been successful. Or could be yet? Then it came to her, of course, that she would not be telling Clark anything. Never again. She would not be concerned about what happened to him, or to the horses. If, by any chance, Flora came back she would not hear about it. This was her second time, leaving everything behind. The first time had been just like the old Beatles song: she had put a note on the table and slipped out of the house at five o’clock in the morning to meet Clark in the church parking lot down the street. She was even humming that song as they rattled away. She’s leaving home, bye-bye. She recalled now how the sun had come up behind them, how she had looked at Clark’s hands on the wheel, at the dark hairs on his competent forearms, and breathed in the smell of the truck, a smell of oil and metal tools and horse barns. The cold air of the fall morning had blown in through the rusted seams of the sort of vehicle that nobody in her family ever rode in, that scarcely ever appeared on the streets where she lived. Clark’s preoccupation with the traffic, his curt answers, his narrowed eyes, everything about him that ignored her, even his slight irritation at her giddy delight—all of that had thrilled her. As did the disorder of his past life, his avowed loneliness, the unexpectedly tender way he could have with a horse, and with her. She saw him as the sturdy architect of the life ahead of them, herself as a captive, her submission both proper and exquisite. “You don’t know what you’re leaving behind,” her mother wrote to her, in the one letter she received and never answered. But in those shivering moments of early-morning flight she certainly had known what she was leaving behind, even if she had rather a hazy idea of what she was going to. She despised their house, their back yard, their photo albums, their vacations, their Cuisinart, their powder room, their walk-in closets, their underground lawn-sprinkling system. In the brief note she left, she had used the word “authentic.” I have always felt the need of a more authentic kind of life. I know I cannot expect you to understand this. The bus had stopped now at a gas station in the first town on the way. It was the very station that she and Clark used to drive to, in their early days, to buy cheap gas. In those days, their world had included several towns in the surrounding countryside, and they had sometimes behaved like tourists, sampling the specialties in grimy hotel bars. Pigs’ feet, sauerkraut, potato pancakes, beer. They would sing all the way home like crazy hillbillies. But after a while all outings came to be seen as a waste of time and money. They were what people did before they understood the realities of their lives. She was crying now—her eyes had filled up without her realizing it. She tried to think about Toronto, the first steps ahead. The taxi, the house she had never seen, the strange bed she would sleep in alone. Looking in the phone book tomorrow for the addresses of riding stables, then getting to wherever they were, asking for a job. She could not picture it. Herself riding on the subway or a streetcar, caring for new horses, talking to new people, living among hordes of people every day who were not Clark. A life, a place, chosen for that specific reason: that it would not contain Clark. The strange and terrible thing about that world of the future, as she now pictured it, was that she would not exist in it. She would only walk around, and open her mouth and speak, and do this and do that. She would not really be there. And what was strange about it was that she was doing all this, she was riding on this bus, in the hope of recovering herself. As Mrs. Jamieson might say—and as she herself might have said with satisfaction—taking charge of her own life. With nobody glowering over her, nobody’s mood infecting her with misery, no implacable mysterious silence surrounding her. But what would she care about? How would she know that she was alive? While she was running away from him—now—Clark still kept his place in her life. But when she was finished running away, when she just went on, what would she put in his place? What else—who else—could ever be so vivid a challenge? She managed to stop crying but she had started to shake. She was in a bad way and would have to take hold, get a grip on herself. “Get a grip on yourself,” Clark had sometimes told her, passing through a room where she was scrunched up, trying not to weep, and that indeed was what she must do now. They had stopped in another town. This was the third town away from the one where she had got on the bus, which meant that they had passed through the second town without her even noticing. The bus must have stopped, the driver must have called out the name, and she had not heard or seen anything, in her fog of fright. Soon enough, they would reach the highway, they would be tearing along toward Toronto. And she would be lost. She would be lost. What would be the point of getting into a taxi and giving the new address, of getting up in the morning and brushing her teeth and going into the world? Her feet seemed now to be at some enormous distance from her body. Her knees in the unfamiliar crisp pants were weighted with irons. She was sinking to the ground like a stricken horse. Already the bus had loaded on the few passengers and parcels that had been waiting in this town. A woman and a baby in its stroller were waving goodbye to somebody. The building behind them, the café that served as a bus stop, was also in motion; a liquefying wave passed through the bricks and windows as if they were about to dissolve. In peril, Carla pulled her huge body, her iron limbs, forward. She stumbled. She cried out, “Let me off.” The driver braked. He called back irritably, “I thought you were going to Toronto.” People gave her casually curious looks. No one seemed to understand that she was in anguish. “I have to get off here.” ‘‘There’s a washroom in the back.” “No. No. I have to get off.” “I’m not waiting. You understand that? You got luggage underneath?” “No. Yes. No.” “No luggage?” A voice in the bus said, “Claustrophobia. That’s what’s the matter with her.” “You sick?” the driver said. “No. No. I just want off.” “O.K. O.K. Fine by me.” Come and get me. Please. Come and get me. I will. The door was not locked. And it occurred to Sylvia that she should be locking it now, not opening it, but it was too late, she had it open. And nobody there. Yet she was sure, sure, that the knocking had been real. She closed the door and this time she locked it. There was a playful sound, a tinkling tapping sound, coming from the wall of windows. She switched the light on, but saw nothing there, and switched it off again. Some animal—maybe a squirrel? The French doors leading to the patio had not been locked, either. Not even really closed, since she had left them open an inch or so to air the house. She started to close them, and then somebody laughed, close by, close enough to be in the room with her. “It’s me,” a man said. “Did I scare you?” He was pressed against the glass of the door; he was right beside her. “It’s Clark,” he said. “Clark from down the road.” She was not going to ask him in, but she was afraid to shut the door in his face. He might grab it before she could get it closed. She didn’t want to turn on the light, either. She slept in a T-shirt. She should have pulled the quilt from the sofa and wrapped it around herself, but it was too late now. “Did you want to get dressed?” he said. “What I got in here could be the very things you need.” He had a shopping bag in his hand. He thrust it at her, but did not try to move forward with it. “What?” she said in a choppy voice. “Look and see. It’s not a bomb. There, take it.” She felt inside the bag, not looking. Something soft. And then she recognized the buttons of the jacket, the silk of the shirt, the belt on the pants. “Just thought you’d better have them back,” he said. “They’re yours, aren’t they?” She tightened her jaw so that her teeth wouldn’t chatter. A fearful dryness had attacked her mouth and throat. “I understood they were yours,” he said. Her tongue moved like a wad of wool. She forced herself to say, “Where’s Carla?” “You mean my wife Carla?” Now she could see his face more clearly. She could see how he was enjoying himself. “My wife Carla is at home in bed. Where she belongs.” He was both handsome and silly-looking. Tall, lean, well built, but with a slouch that seemed artificial. A contrived, self-conscious air of menace. A lock of dark hair falling over his forehead, a vain little mustache, eyes that appeared both hopeful and mocking, a boyish smile perpetually on the verge of a sulk. She had always disliked the sight of him—she had mentioned her dislike to Leon, who said that the man was just unsure of himself, just a bit too friendly. The fact that he was unsure of himself would not make her any safer. “Pretty worn out,” he said. “After her little adventure. You should have seen your face—you should have seen the look on you when you recognized those clothes. What did you think? Did you think I’d murdered her?” “I was surprised,” Sylvia said. “I bet you were. After you were such a big help to her running away.” “I helped her—” Sylvia said with considerable effort. “I helped her because she seemed to be in distress.” “Distress,” he said, as if examining the word. ‘‘I guess she was. She was in very big distress when she jumped off that bus and got on the phone to me to come and get her. She was crying so hard I could hardly make out what it was she was saying.” “She wanted to come back?” “Oh, yeah. You bet she wanted to come back. She was in real hysterics to come back. She is a girl who is very up and down in her emotions. But I guess you don’t know her as well as I do.” “She seemed quite happy to be going.” “Did she really? Well, I have to take your word for it. I didn’t come here to argue with you.” Sylvia said nothing. “Actually, I came here not just to return those clothes. I came here to tell you that I don’t appreciate you interfering in my life with my wife.” “She is a human being,” Sylvia said, though she knew that it would be better if she could keep quiet. “Besides being your wife.” “My goodness, is that so? My wife is a human being? Really? Thank you for the information. But don’t try getting smart with me. Sylvia.” “I wasn’t trying to get smart.” “Good. I’m glad you weren’t. I don’t want to get mad. I just have a couple of important things to say to you. One thing—that I don’t want you sticking your nose in anywhere, anytime, in my life. Another—that I’m not going to want her coming around here anymore. Not that she is going to want to come, I’m pretty sure of that. She doesn’t have too good an opinion of you at the moment. And it’s time you learned how to clean your own house. Now—” he said. “Now. Has that sunk in?” “Quite sufficiently.” “Oh, I really hope it has. I hope so.” Sylvia said, “Yes.” “And you know what else I think?” “What?” “I think you owe me something.” “What?” “I think you owe me—you owe me an apology.” Sylvia said, “All right. If you think so. I’m sorry.” He shifted, perhaps just to put out his hand, and with the movement of his body she shrieked. He laughed. He put his hand on the doorframe to make sure she didn’t close it. “What’s that?” “What’s what?” he said, as if she were trying out a trick and it would not work. But then he caught sight of something reflected in the window, and he snapped around to look. Not far from the house was a wide shallow patch of land that often filled up with night fog at this time of year. The fog was there tonight, had been there all this while. But now the fog had changed. It had thickened, taken on a separate shape, transformed itself into something spiky and radiant. First, a live dandelion ball, tumbling forward, then it condensed itself into an unearthly sort of animal, pure white, hellbent, something like a giant unicorn rushing at them. “Jesus Christ,” Clark said softly. He grabbed hold of Sylvia’s shoulder. This touch did not alarm her at all—she accepted it with the knowledge that he did it either to protect her or to reassure himself. Then the vision exploded. Out of the fog, and out of the magnifying light—now revealed to be that of a car travelling along this back road, probably in search of a place to park—out of this appeared a white goat. A little dancing white goat, hardly bigger than a sheepdog. Clark let go. He said, “Where the Christ did you come from?” “It’s your goat,” Sylvia said. “Isn’t it your goat?” “Flora,” he said. “Flora.” The goat had stopped a yard or so away from them, had turned shy, and hung her head. “Flora,” Clark said. “Where the hell did you come from? You scared the shit out of us.” Us. Flora came closer but still did not look up. She butted against Clark’s legs. “Goddam stupid animal,” he said shakily. “She was lost,” Sylvia said. “Yeah. She was. Never thought we’d see her again, actually.” Flora looked up. The moonlight caught a glitter in her eyes. “Scared the shit out of us,” Clark said to her. “We thought you were a ghost.” “It was the effect of the fog,” Sylvia said. She stepped out of the door now, onto the patio. Quite safe. “Yeah.” “Then the lights of that car.” “Like an apparition,” he said, recovering. And pleased that he had thought of this description. “Yes.” “The goat from outer space. That’s what you are. You are a goddam goat from outer space,” he said, patting Flora. But when Sylvia put out her hand to do the same Flora immediately lowered her head as if preparing to butt. “Goats are unpredictable,” Clark said. “They can seem tame but they’re not really. Not after they grow up.” “Is she grown up? She looks so small.” “She’s as big as she’s ever going to get.” They stood looking down at the goat, as if hoping that she would provide them with more conversation. But she apparently was not going to. From this moment, they could go neither forward nor back. Sylvia believed that she might have seen a shadow of regret in his eyes that this was so. But he acknowledged it. He said, “It’s late.” “I guess it is,” Sylvia said, just as if this had been an ordinary visit. “O.K., Flora. Time for us to go home.” “I’ll make other arrangements for help if I need it,” she said. “I probably won’t need it now, anyway.” She added lightly, “I’ll stay out of your hair.” “Sure,” he said. “You’d better get inside. You’ll get cold.” “Good night,” she said. “Good night, Flora.” The phone rang then. “Excuse me.” “Good night.” It was Ruth. “Ah,” Sylvia said. “A change in plans.” She did not sleep, thinking of the little goat, whose appearance out of the fog seemed to her more and more magical. She even wondered if, possibly, Leon could have had something to do with it. If she were a poet, she would write a poem about something like this. But in her experience the subjects that she thought a poet would write about had not appealed to Leon, who was—who had been—the real thing. Carla had not heard Clark go out, but she woke when he came in. He told her that he had just been checking around the barn. “A car went along the road a while ago, and I wondered what it was doing here. I couldn’t get back to sleep till I went out and checked whether everything was O.K.” “So, was it?” “Far as I could see. And then while I was up,” he said, “I thought I might as well pay a visit up the road. I took the clothes back.” Carla sat up in bed. “You didn’t wake her up?” “She woke up. It was O.K. We had a little talk.” “Oh.” ‘‘It was O.K.” “You didn’t mention any of that stuff, did you?” “I didn’t mention it.” “It really was all made up. It really was. You have to believe me. It was all a lie.” “O.K.” “You have to believe me.” “Then I believe you.” “I made it all up.” “O.K.” He got into bed. “Did you get your feet wet?” she said. “Heavy dew.” He turned to her. “Come here,” he said. “When I read your note, it was just like I went hollow inside. It’s true. I felt like I didn’t have anything left in me.” The bright weather had continued. On the streets, in the stores, in the post office, people greeted each other by saying that summer had finally arrived. The pasture grass and even the poor beaten crops lifted up their heads. The puddles dried up, the mud turned to dust. A light warm wind blew and everybody felt like doing things again. The phone rang. Inquiries about trail rides, about riding lessons. Summer camps cancelled their trips to museums, and minivans drew up, loaded with restless children. The horses pranced along the fences, freed from their blankets. Clark had managed to get hold of a piece of roofing at a good price. He had spent the whole first day after Runaway Day (that was how they referred to Carla’s bus trip) fixing the roof of the exercise ring. For a couple of days, as they went about their chores, he and Carla would wave at each other. If she happened to pass close to him and there was nobody else around, Carla might kiss his shoulder through the light material of his summer shirt. “If you ever try to run away on me again I’ll tan your hide,” he said to her, and she said, “Who are you now—Clint Eastwood?” Then she said, “Would you?” “What?” “Tan my hide?” “Damn right.” Birds were everywhere. Red-winged blackbirds, robins, a pair of doves that sang at daybreak. Lots of crows, and gulls on reconnoitering missions from the lake, and big turkey buzzards that sat in the branches of a dead oak about half a mile away, at the edge of the woods. At first they just sat there, drying out their voluminous wings, lifting themselves occasionally for a trial flight, flapping around a bit, then composing themselves, to let the sun and the warm air do their work. In a day or so, they were restored, flying high, circling and dropping to earth, disappearing over the woods, coming back to rest in the familiar bare tree. Lizzie Borden’s owner—Joy Tucker—showed up again, tanned and friendly. She had got sick of the rain, and gone off on her holidays to hike in the Rocky Mountains. Now she was back. Perfect timing. She and Clark treated each other warily at first, but they were soon joking as if nothing had happened. “Lizzie looks to be in good shape,” she said. “But where’s her little friend?” “Gone,” Clark said. “Maybe she took off to the Rocky Mountains.” “Lots of wild goats out there. With fantastic horns.” “So I hear.” For three or four days they had been too busy to go down and look in the mailbox. When Carla opened it, she found the phone bill, a promise that if they subscribed to a certain magazine they could win a million dollars, and Mrs. Jamieson’s letter. My Dear Carla, I have been thinking about the (rather dramatic) events of the last few days and I find myself talking to myself, but really to you, so often that I thought I must speak to you, even if—the best way I can do now—only in a letter. And don’t worry—you do not have to answer me. Mrs. Jamieson went on to say that she was afraid she had involved herself too closely in Carla’s life and had made the mistake of thinking somehow that Carla’s freedom and happiness were the same thing. All she cared for was Carla’s happiness, and she saw now that she—Carla—had found that in her marriage. All she could hope was that perhaps Carla’s flight and turbulent emotions had brought her true feelings to the surface, and perhaps a recognition in her husband of his true feelings as well. She said that she would perfectly understand if Carla wished to avoid her in the future and that she would always be grateful for Carla’s presence in her life during such a difficult time. The strangest and most wonderful thing in this whole string of events seems to me the reappearance of Flora. In fact, it seems rather like a miracle. Where had she been all that time and why did she choose just that moment to reappear? I am sure your husband has described it to you. We were talking at the patio door, and I—facing out—was the first to see this white something, descending on us out of the night. Of course it was the effect of the ground fog. But truly terrifying. I think I shrieked out loud. I had never in my life felt such bewitchment, in the true sense. I suppose I should be honest and say fear. There we were, two adults, frozen, and then out of the fog comes little lost Flora. There has to be something special about this. I know, of course, that Flora is an ordinary little animal and that she probably spent her time away getting herself pregnant. In a sense, her return has no connection at all with our human lives. Yet her appearance at that moment did have a profound effect on your husband and me. When two human beings divided by hostility are both, at the same time, mystified by the same apparition, there is a bond that springs up between them, and they find themselves united in the most unexpected way. United in their humanity—that is the only way I can describe it. We parted almost as friends. So Flora has her place as a good angel in my life and perhaps also in your husband’s life and yours. With all my good wishes, Sylvia Jamieson As soon as Carla had read this letter she crumpled it up. Then she burned it in the sink. The flames leaped up alarmingly and she turned on the tap, then scooped up the soft disgusting black stuff and put it down the toilet, as she should have done in the first place. She was busy for the rest of that day, and the next, and the next. During that time, she had to take two parties out on the trails, she had to give lessons to children, individually and in groups. At night when Clark put his arms around her—he was generally in good spirits now—she did not find it hard to be coöperative. She dreamed of things that were of no importance, that made no sense. It was as if she had a murderous needle somewhere in her lungs, and by breathing carefully she could avoid feeling it. But every once in a while she had to take a deep breath, and it was still there. Sylvia Jamieson had taken an apartment in the college town where she taught. The house was not up for sale—or at least there wasn’t a sign out in front of it. Leon Jamieson had got some kind of posthumous award—news of this was in the papers. There was no mention of any money. As the dry golden days of fall came on—an encouraging and profitable season—Carla found that she had got used to the sharp thought that had lodged inside her. It wasn’t so sharp anymore; in fact, it no longer surprised her. She was inhabited now by an almost seductive notion, a constant low-lying temptation. She had only to raise her eyes, she had only to look in one direction, to know where she might go. An evening walk, once her chores for the day were finished. To the edge of the woods, and the bare tree where she had seen the buzzards. Where she might find the little dirty bones in the grass. The skull, with shreds of bloodied skin still clinging to it, that she could settle in one hand. Knowledge in one hand. Or perhaps not. Suppose something else had happened. Suppose he had chased Flora away, or tied her in the back of the truck and driven some distance and let her loose. Taken her back to the place they’d got her from. Not to have her around, reminding them of this bad time. The days passed and she didn’t go. She held out against the temptation. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
A Rich Man	Horace and Loneese Perkins—one child, one grandchild—lived most unhappily together for more than twelve years in Apartment 230 at Sunset House, a building for senior citizens at 1202 Thirteenth Street NW. They moved there in 1977, the year they celebrated forty years of marriage, the year they made love for the last time—Loneese kept a diary of sorts, and that fact was noted on one day of a week when she noted nothing else. “He touched me,” she wrote, which had always been her diary euphemism for sex. That was also the year they retired, she as a pool secretary at the Commerce Department, where she had known one lover, and he as a civilian employee at the Pentagon, as the head of veteran records. He had been an Army sergeant for ten years before becoming head of records; the Secretary of Defense gave him a plaque as big as his chest on the day he retired, and he and the Secretary of Defense and Loneese had their picture taken, a picture that hung for all those twelve years in the living room of Apartment 230, on the wall just to the right of the heating-and-air-conditioning unit. A month before they moved in, they drove in their burgundy-and-gold Cadillac from their small house on Chesapeake Street in Southeast to a Union Station restaurant and promised each other that Sunset House would be a new beginning for them. Over blackened catfish and a peach cobbler that they both agreed could have been better, they vowed to devote themselves to each other and become even better grandparents. Horace had long known about the Commerce Department lover. Loneese had told him about the man two months after she had ended the relationship, in 1969. “He worked in the mail room,” she told her husband over a spaghetti supper she had cooked in the Chesapeake Street home. “He touched me in the motel room,” she wrote in her diary, “and after it was over he begged me to go away to Florida with him. All I could think about was that Florida was for old people.” At that spaghetti supper, Horace did not mention the dozens of lovers he had had in his time as her husband. She knew there had been many, knew it because they were written on his face in the early years of their marriage, and because he had never bothered to hide what he was doing in the later years. “I be back in a while. I got some business to do,” he would say. He did not even mention the lover he had slept with just the day before the spaghetti supper, the one he bid goodbye to with a “Be good and be sweet” after telling her he planned to become a new man and respect his marriage vows. The woman, a thin school-bus driver with clanking bracelets up to her elbows on both arms, snorted a laugh, which made Horace want to slap her, because he was used to people taking him seriously. “Forget you, then,” Horace said on the way out the door. “I was just tryin to let you down easy.” Over another spaghetti supper two weeks before moving, they reiterated what had been said at the blackened-catfish supper and did the dishes together and went to bed as man and wife, and over the next days sold almost all the Chesapeake Street furniture. What they kept belonged primarily to Horace, starting with a collection of six hundred and thirty-nine record albums, many of them his “sweet babies,” the 78s. If a band worth anything had recorded between 1915 and 1950, he bragged, he had the record; after 1950, he said, the bands got sloppy and he had to back away. Horace also kept the Cadillac he had painted to honor a football team, paid to park the car in the underground garage. Sunset had once been intended as a luxury place, but the builders, two friends of the city commissioners, ran out of money in the middle and the commissioners had the city-government people buy it off them. The city-government people completed Sunset, with its tiny rooms, and then, after one commissioner gave a speech in Southwest about looking out for old people, some city-government people in Northeast came up with the idea that old people might like to live in Sunset, in Northwest. Three weeks after Horace and Loneese moved in, Horace went down to the lobby one Saturday afternoon to get their mail and happened to see Clara Knightley getting her mail. She lived in Apartment 512. “You got this fixed up real nice,” Horace said of Apartment 512 a little less than an hour after meeting her. “But I could see just in the way that you carry yourself that you got good taste. I could tell that about you right off.” “You swellin my head with all that talk, Mr. Perkins,” Clara said, offering him coffee, which he rejected, because such moments always called for something stronger. “Whas a woman’s head for if a man can’t swell it up from time to time. Huh? Answer me that, Clara. You just answer me that.” Clara was fifty-five, a bit younger than most of the residents of Sunset House, though she was much older than all Horace’s other lovers. She did not fit the city people’s definition of a senior citizen, but she had a host of ailments, from high blood pressure to diabetes, and so the city people had let her in. Despite the promises, the marriage, what little there had been of it, came to an end. “I will make myself happy,” Loneese told the diary a month after he last touched her. Loneese and Horace had fixed up their apartment nicely, and neither of them wanted to give the place up to the other. She wanted to make a final stand with the man who had given her so much heartache, the man who had told her, six months after her confession, what a whore she had been to sleep with the Commerce Department mail-room man. Horace, at sixty, had never thought much of women over fifty, but Clara—and, after her, Willa, of Apartment 1001, and Miriam, of Apartment 109—had awakened something in him, and he began to think that women over fifty weren’t such a bad deal after all. Sunset House had dozens of such women, many of them attractive widows, many of them eager for a kind word from a retired Army sergeant who had so many medals and ribbons that his uniform could not carry them. As far as he could see, he was cock of the walk: many of the men in Sunset suffered from diseases that Horace had so far escaped, or they were not as good-looking or as thin, or they were encumbered by wives they loved. In Sunset House he was a rich man. So why move and give that whore the satisfaction? They lived separate lives in a space that was only a fourth as large as the Chesapeake Street house. The building came to know them as the man and wife in 230 who couldn’t stand each other. People talked about the Perkinses more than they did about anyone else, which was particularly upsetting to Loneese, who had been raised to believe family business should stay in the family. “Oh, Lord, what them two been up to now?” “Fight like cats and dogs, they do.” “Who he seein now?” They each bought their own food from the Richfood on Eleventh Street or from the little store on Thirteenth Street, and they could be vile to each other if what one bought was disturbed or eaten by the other. Loneese stopped speaking to Horace for nine months in 1984 and 1985, when she saw that her pumpkin pie was a bit smaller than when she last cut a slice from it. “I ain’t touch your damn pie, you crazy woman,” he said when she accused him. “How long you been married to me? You know I’ve never been partial to pumpkin pie.” “That’s fine for you to say, Horace, but why is some missing? You might not be partial to it, but I know you. I know you’ll eat anything in a pinch. That’s just your dirty nature.” “My nature ain’t no more dirty than yours.” After that, she bought a small icebox for the bedroom where she slept, though she continued to keep the larger items in the kitchen refrigerator. He bought a separate telephone, because he complained that she wasn’t giving him his messages from his “associates.” “I have never been a secretary for whores,” she said, watching him set up an answering machine next to the hide-a-bed couch where he slept. “Oh, don’t get me started bout whores. I’d say you wrote the damn book.” “It was dictated by you.” Their one child, Alonzo, lived with his wife and son in Baltimore. He had not been close to his parents for a long time, and he could not put the why of it into words for his wife. Their boy, Alonzo, Jr., who was twelve when his grandparents moved into Sunset, loved to visit them. Horace would unplug and put away his telephone when the boy visited. And Loneese and Horace would sleep together in the bedroom. She’d put a pillow between them in the double bed to remind herself not to roll toward him. Their grandson visited less and less as he moved into his teen-age years, and then, after he went away to college, in Ohio, he just called them every few weeks, on the phone they had had installed in the name of Horace and Loneese Perkins. In 1987, Loneese’s heart began the countdown to its last beat and she started spending more time at George Washington University Hospital than she did in the apartment. Horace never visited her. She died two years later. She woke up that last night in the hospital and went out into the hall and then to the nurses’ station but could not find a nurse anywhere to tell her where she was or why she was there. “Why do the patients have to run this place alone?” she said to the walls. She returned to her room and it came to her why she was there. It was nearing three in the morning, but she called her own telephone first, then she dialled Horace’s. He answered, but she never said a word. “Who’s this playin on my phone?” Horace kept asking. “Who’s this? I don’t allow no playin on my phone.” She hung up and lay down and said her prayers. After moving into Sunset, she had taken one more lover, a man at Vermont Avenue Baptist Church, where she went from time to time. He was retired, too. She wrote in her diary that he was not a big eater and that “down there, his vitals were missing.” Loneese Perkins was buried in a plot at Harmony Cemetery that she and Horace had bought when they were younger. There was a spot for Horace and there was one for their son, but Alonzo had long since made plans to be buried in a cemetery just outside Baltimore. Horace kept the apartment more or less the way it was on the last day she was there. His son and daughter-in-law and grandson took some of her clothes to the Goodwill and the rest they gave to other women in the building. There were souvenirs from countries that Loneese and Horace had visited as man and wife—a Ghanaian carving of men surrounding a leopard they had killed, a brass menorah from Israel, a snow globe of Mt. Fuji with some of the snow stuck forever to the top of the globe. They were things that did not mean very much to Alonzo, but he knew his child, and he knew that one day Alonzo, Jr., would cherish them. Horace tried sleeping in the bed, but he had been not unhappy in his twelve years on the hide-a-bed. He got rid of the bed and moved the couch into the bedroom and kept it open all the time. He realized two things after Loneese’s death: His own “vitals” had rejuvenated. He had never had the problems other men had, though he had failed a few times along the way, but that was to be expected. Now, as he moved closer to his seventy-third birthday, he felt himself becoming ever stronger, ever more potent. God is a strange one, he thought, sipping Chivas Regal one night before he went out: he takes a man’s wife and gives him a new penis in her place. The other thing he realized was that he was more and more attracted to younger women. When Loneese died, he had been keeping company with a woman of sixty-one, Sandy Carlin, in Apartment 907. One day in February, nine months after Loneese’s death, one of Sandy’s daughters, Jill, came to visit, along with one of Jill’s friends, Elaine Cunningham. They were both twenty-five years old. From the moment they walked through Sandy’s door, Horace began to compliment them—on their hair, the color of their fingernail polish, the sharp crease in Jill’s pants (“You iron that yourself?”), even “that sophisticated way” Elaine crossed her legs. The young women giggled, which made him happy, pleased with himself, and Sandy sat in her place on the couch. As the ice in the Pepsi-Cola in her left hand melted, she realized all over again that God had never promised her a man until her dying day. When the girls left, about three in the afternoon, Horace offered to accompany them downstairs, “to keep all them bad men away.” In the lobby, as the security guard at her desk strained to hear, he made it known that he wouldn’t mind if they came by to see him sometime. The women looked at each other and giggled some more. They had been planning to go to a club in Southwest that evening, but they were amused by the old man, by the way he had his rap together and put them on some sort of big pedestal and shit, as Jill would tell another friend weeks later. And when he saw how receptive they were he said why not come on up tonight, shucks, ain’t no time like the present. Jill said he musta got that from a song, but he said no, he’d been sayin that since before they were born, and Elaine said thas the truth, and the women giggled again. He said I ain’t gonna lie bout bein a seasoned man, and then he joined in the giggling. Jill looked at Elaine and said want to? And Elaine said what about your mom? And Jill shrugged her shoulders and Elaine said O.K. She had just broken up with a man she had met at another club and needed something to make the pain go away until there was another man, maybe from a better club. At about eleven-thirty, Jill wandered off into the night, her head liquored up, and Elaine stayed and got weepy—about the man from the not-so-good club, about the two abortions, about running away from home at seventeen after a fight with her father. “I just left him nappin on the couch,” she said, stretched out on Horace’s new living-room couch, her shoes off and one of Loneese’s throws over her feet. Horace was in the chair across from her. “For all I know, he’s still on that couch.” Even before she got to her father, even before the abortions, he knew that he would sleep with her that night. He did not even need to fill her glass a third time. “He was a fat man,” she said of her father. “And there ain’t a whole lot more I remember.” “Listen,” he said as she talked about her father, “everything’s gonna work out right for you.” He knew that, at such times in a seduction, the more positive a man was the better things went. It would not have done to tell her to forget her daddy, that she had done the right thing by running out on that fat so-and-so; it was best to focus on tomorrow and tell her that the world would be brighter in the morning. He came over to the couch, and before he sat down on the edge of the coffee table he hiked up his pants just a bit with his fingertips, and seeing him do that reminded her vaguely of something wonderful. The boys in the club sure didn’t do it that way. He took her hand and kissed her palm. “Everything’s gonna work out to the good,” he said. Elaine Cunningham woke in the morning with Horace sleeping quietly beside her. She did not rebuke herself and did not look over at him with horror at what she had done. She sighed and laid her head back on the pillow and thought how much she still loved the man from the club, but there was nothing more she could do: not even the five-hundred-dollar leather jacket she had purchased for the man had brought him around. Two years after running away, she had gone back to where she had lived with her parents, but they had moved and no one in the building knew where they had gone. But everyone remembered her. “You sure done growed up, Elaine,” one old woman said. “I wouldna knowed if you hadn’t told me who you was.” “Fuck em,” Elaine said to the friends who had given her a ride there. “Fuck em all to hell.” Then, in the car, heading out to Capitol Heights, where she was staying, “Well, maybe not fuck my mother. She was good.” “Just fuck your daddy then?” the girl in the back seat said. Elaine thought about it as they went down Rhode Island Avenue, and just before they turned onto New Jersey Avenue she said, “Yes, just fuck my daddy. The fat fuck.” She got out of Horace’s bed and tried to wet the desert in her mouth as she looked in his closet for a bathrobe. She rejected the blue and the paisley ones for a dark-green one that reminded her of something wonderful, just as Horace’s hiking up his pants had. She smelled the sleeves once she had it on, but there was only the strong scent of detergent. In the half room that passed for a kitchen, she stood and drank most of the orange juice in the gallon carton. “Now, that was stupid, girl,” she said. “You know you shoulda drunk water. Better for the thirst.” She returned the carton to the refrigerator and marvelled at all the food. “Damn!” she said. With the refrigerator door still open, she stepped out into the living room and took note of all that Horace had, thinking, A girl could live large here if she did things right. She had been crashing at a friend’s place in Northeast, and the friend’s mother had begun to hint that it was time for her to move on. Even when she had a job, she rarely had a place of her own. “Hmm,” she said, looking through the refrigerator for what she wanted to eat. “Boody for home and food. Food, home. Boody. You shoulda stayed in school, girl. They give courses on this. Food and Home the first semester. Boody Givin the second semester.” But, as she ate her eggs and bacon and Hungry Man biscuits, she knew that she did not want to sleep with Horace too many more times, even if he did have his little castle. He was too tall, and she had never been attracted to tall men, old or otherwise. “Damn! Why couldn’t he be what I wanted and have a nice place, too?” Then, as she sopped up the last of the yolk with the last half of the last biscuit, she thought of her best friend, Catrina, the woman she was crashing with. Catrina Stockton was twenty-eight, and though she had once been a heroin addict, she was one year clean and had a face and a body that testified not to a woman who had lived a bad life on the streets but to a nice-looking Virginia woman who had married at seventeen, had had three children by a truck-driving husband, and had met a man in a Fredericksburg McDonald’s who had said that women like her could be queens in D.C. Yes, Elaine thought as she leaned over the couch and stared at the photograph of Horace and Loneese and the Secretary of Defense, Catrina was always saying how much she wanted love, how it didn’t matter what a man looked like, as long as he was good to her and loved her morning, noon, and night. The Secretary of Defense was in the middle of the couple. She did not know who he was, just that she had seen him somewhere, maybe on the television. Horace was holding the plaque just to the left, away from the Secretary. Elaine reached over and removed a spot of dust from the picture with her fingertip, and before she could flick it away a woman said her name and she looked around, chilled. She went into the bedroom to make sure that the voice had not been death telling her to check on Horace. She found him sitting up in the bed, yawning and stretching. “You sleep good, honey bunch?” he said. “I sure did, sweetie pie,” she said and bounded across the room to hug him. A breakfast like the one she’d had would cost at least four dollars anywhere in D.C. or Maryland. “Oh, but Papa likes that,” Horace said. And even the cheapest motels out on New York Avenue, the ones catering to the junkies and prostitutes, charged at least twenty-five dollars a night. What’s a hug compared with that? And, besides, she liked him more than she had thought, and the issue of Catrina and her moving in had to be done delicately. “Well, just let me give you a little bit mo, then.” Young stuff is young stuff, Horace thought the first time Elaine brought Catrina by and Catrina gave him a peck on the cheek and said, “I feel like I know you from all that Elaine told me.” That was in early March. In early April, Elaine met another man at a new club on F Street Northwest and fell in love, and so did Horace with Catrina, though Catrina, after several years on the street, knew what she was feeling might be in the neighborhood of love but it was nowhere near the right house. She and Elaine told Horace the saddest of stories about the man Elaine had met in the club, and before the end of April he was sleeping on Horace’s living-room floor. It helped that the man, Darnell Mudd, knew the way to anyone’s heart, man or woman, and that he claimed to have a father who had been a hero in the Korean War. He even knew the name of the Secretary of Defense in the photograph and how long he had served in the Cabinet. By the middle of May, there were as many as five other people, friends of the three young people, hanging out at any one time in Horace’s place. He was giddy with Catrina, with the blunts, with the other women who snuck out with him to a room at the motel across Thirteenth Street. By early June, more than a hundred of his old records had been stolen and pawned. “Leave his stuff alone,” Elaine said to Darnell and his friends as they were going out the door with ten records apiece. “Don’t take his stuff. He loves that stuff.” It was eleven in the morning and everyone else in the apartment, including Horace, was asleep. “Sh-h-h,” Darnell said. “He got so many he won’t notice.” And that was true. Horace hadn’t played records in many months. He had two swords that were originally on the wall opposite the heating-and-air-conditioning unit. Both had belonged to German officers killed in the Second World War. Horace, high on the blunts, liked to see the young men sword fight with them. But the next day, sober, he would hide them in the bottom of the closet, only to pull them out again when the partying started, at about four in the afternoon. His neighbors, especially the neighbors who considered that Loneese had been the long-suffering one in the marriage, complained to the management about the noise, but the city-government people read in his rental record that he had lost his wife not long ago and told the neighbors that he was probably doing some kind of grieving. The city-government people never went above the first floor in Sunset. “He’s a veteran who just lost his wife,” they would say to those who came to the glass office on the first floor. “Why don’t you cut him some slack?” But Horace tried to get a grip on things after a maintenance man told him to be careful. That was about the time one of the swords was broken and he could not for the life of him remember how it had happened. He just found it one afternoon in two pieces in the refrigerator’s vegetable bin. Things toned down a little, but the young women continued to come by and Horace went on being happy with them and with Catrina, who called him Papa and pretended to be upset when she saw him kissing another girl. “Papa, what am I gonna do with you and all your hussies?” “Papa, promise you’ll only love me.” “Papa, I need a new outfit. Help me out, willya please?” Elaine had become pregnant not long after meeting Darnell, who told her to have the baby, that he had always wanted a son to carry on his name. “We can call him Junior,” he said. “Or Little Darnell,” she said. As she began showing, Horace and Catrina became increasingly concerned about her. Horace remembered how solicitous he had been when Loneese had been pregnant. He had not taken the first lover yet, had not even thought about anyone else as she grew and grew. He told Elaine no drugs or alcohol until the baby was born, and he tried to get her to go to bed at a decent hour, but that was often difficult with a small crowd in the living room. Horace’s grandson called in December, wanting to come by to see him, but Horace told him it would be best to meet someplace downtown, because his place was a mess. He didn’t do much cleaning since Loneese died. “I don’t care about that,” Alonzo, Jr., said. “Well, I do,” Horace said. “You know how I can be bout these things.” In late December, Elaine gave birth to a boy, several weeks early. They gave him the middle name Horace. “See,” Darnell said one day, holding the baby on the couch. “Thas your grandpa. You don’t mind me callin you his granddad, Mr. Perkins? You don’t mind, do you?” The city-government people in the rental office, led by someone new, someone who took the rules seriously, took note that the old man in Apartment 230 had a baby and his mama and daddy in the place and not a single one of them was even related to him, though if one had been it still would have been against the rules as laid down in the rule book of apartment living. By late February, an undercover policeman had bought two packets of crack from someone in the apartment. It was a woman, he told his superiors at first, and that’s what he wrote in his report, but in a subsequent report he wrote that he had bought the rocks from a man. “Start over,” said one of his superiors, who supped monthly with the new mayor, who lived for numbers, and in March the undercover man went back to buy more. It was late on a warm Saturday night in April when Elaine woke to the crackle of walkie-talkies outside the door. She had not seen Darnell in more than a month, and something told her that she should get out of there because there might not be any more good times. She thought of Horace and Catrina asleep in the bedroom. Two men and two women she did not know very well were asleep in various places around the living room, but she had dated the brother of one of the women some three years ago. One of the men claimed to be Darnell’s cousin, and, to prove it to her, when he knocked at the door that night he showed her a Polaroid of him and Darnell at a club, their arms around each other and their eyes red, because the camera had been cheap and the picture cost only two dollars. She got up from the couch and looked into the crib. In the darkness she could make out that her son was awake, his little legs kicking and no sound from him but a happy gurgle. The sound of the walkie-talkie outside the door came and went. She could see it all on the television news—“Drug Dealing Mama in Jail. Baby Put in Foster Care.” She stepped over the man who said he was Darnell’s cousin and pushed the door to the bedroom all the way open. Catrina was getting out of bed. Horace was snoring. He had never snored before in his life, but the drugs and alcohol together had done bad things to his airway. “You hear anything?” Elaine whispered as Catrina tiptoed to her. “I sure did,” Catrina said. Sleeping on the streets required keeping one eye and both ears open. “I don’t wanna go back to jail.” “Shit. Me, neither,” Elaine said. “What about the window?” “Go out and down two floors? With a baby? Damn!” “We can do it,” Elaine said, looking over Catrina’s shoulder to the dark lump that was Horace mumbling in his sleep. “What about him?” Catrina turned her head. “He old. They ain’t gonna do anything to him. I’m just worried bout makin it with that baby.” “Well, I sure as hell ain’t gonna go without my child.” “I ain’t said we was,” Catrina hissed. “Down two floors just ain’t gonna be easy, is all.” “We can do it,” Elaine said. “We can do it,” Catrina said. She tiptoed to the chair at the foot of the bed and went through Horace’s pants pockets. “Maybe fifty dollars here,” she whispered after returning. “I already got about three hundred.” “You been stealin from him?” Elaine said. The lump in the bed turned over and moaned, then settled back to snoring. “God helps them that helps themselves, Elaine. Les go.” Catrina had her clothes in her hands and went on by Elaine, who watched as the lump in the bed turned again, snoring all the while. Bye, Horace. Bye. I be seein you. The policeman in the unmarked car parked across Thirteenth Street watched as Elaine stood on the edge of the balcony and jumped. She passed for a second in front of the feeble light over the entrance and landed on the sloping entrance of the underground parking garage. The policeman was five years from retirement and he did not move, because he could see quite well from where he sat. His partner, only three years on the job, was asleep in the passenger seat. The veteran thought the woman jumping might have hurt herself, because he did not see her rise from the ground for several minutes. I wouldn’t do it, the man thought, not for all a rich man’s money. The woman did rise, but before she did he saw another woman lean over the balcony dangling a bundle. Drugs? he thought. Nah. Clothes? Yeah, clothes more like it. The bundle was on a long rope or string—it was too far for the man to make out. The woman on the balcony leaned over very far and the woman on the ground reached up as far as she could, but still the bundle was a good two feet from her hands. Just let them clothes drop, the policeman thought. Then Catrina released the bundle and Elaine caught it. Good catch. I wonder what she looks like in the light. Catrina jumped, and the policeman watched her pass momentarily in front of the light, and then he looked over at his partner. He himself didn’t mind filling out the forms so much, but his partner did, so he let him sleep on. I’ll be on a lake fishin my behind off and you’ll still be doin this. When he looked back, the first woman was coming up the slope of the entrance with the bundle in her arms and the second one was limping after her. I wonder what that one looks like in a good light. Once on the sidewalk, both women looked left, then right, and headed down Thirteenth Street. The policeman yawned and watched through his sideview mirror as the women crossed M Street. He yawned again. Even at three o’clock in the morning people still jaywalked. The man who was a cousin of Darnell’s was on his way back from the bathroom when the police broke through the door. He frightened easily, and though he had just emptied his bladder, he peed again as the door came open and the light of the hallway and the loud men came spilling in on him and his sleeping companions. Horace began asking about Catrina and Elaine and the baby as soon as they put him in a cell. It took him that long to clear his head and understand what was happening to him. He pressed his face against the bars, trying to get his bearings and ignoring everything behind him in the cell. He stuck his mouth as far out of the bars as he could and shouted for someone to tell him whether they knew if the young women and the baby were all right. “They just women, y’all,” he kept saying for some five minutes. “They wouldn’t hurt a flea. Officers, please. Please, Officers. What’s done happened to them? And that baby . . . That baby is so innocent.” It was a little after six in the morning, and men up and down the line started hollering for him to shut up or they would stick the biggest dick he ever saw in his mouth. Stunned, he did quiet down, because, while he was used to street language coming from the young men who came and went in his apartment, no bad words had ever been directed at him. They talked trash with the filthiest language he had ever heard but they always invited him to join in and “talk about how it really is,” talk about his knowing the Secretary of Defense and the Mayor. Usually, after the second blunt, he was floating along with them. Now someone had threatened to do to him what he and the young men said they would do to any woman that crossed them. Then he turned from the bars and considered the three men he was sharing the two-man cell with. The city-jail people liked to make as little work for themselves as possible, and filling cells beyond their capacity meant having to deal with fewer locks. One man was cocooned in blankets on the floor beside the tiered metal beds. The man sleeping on the top bunk had a leg over the side, and because he was a tall man the leg came down to within six inches of the face of the man lying on the bottom bunk. That man was awake and on his back and picking his nose and staring at Horace. His other hand was under his blanket, in the crotch of his pants. What the man got out of his nose he would flick up at the bottom of the bunk above him. Watching him, Horace remembered that a very long time ago, even before the Chesapeake Street house, Loneese would iron his handkerchiefs and fold them into four perfect squares. “Daddy,” the man said, “you got my smokes?” “What?” Horace said. He recalled doing it to Catrina about two or three in the morning and then rolling over and going to sleep. He also remembered slapping flies away in his dreams, flies that were as big as the hands of policemen. The man seemed to have an infinite supply of boogers, and the more he picked the more Horace’s stomach churned. He used to think it was such a shame to unfold the handkerchiefs, so wondrous were the squares. The man sighed at Horace’s question and put something from his nose on the big toe of the sleeping man above him. “I said do you got my smokes?” “I don’t have my cigarettes with me,” Horace said. He tried the best white man’s English he knew, having been told by a friend who was serving with him in the Army in Germany that it impressed not only white people but black people who weren’t going anywhere in life. “I left my cigarettes at home.” His legs were aching and he wanted to sit on the floor, but the only available space was in the general area of where he was standing and something adhered to his shoes every time he lifted his feet. “I wish I did have my cigarettes to give you.” “I didn’t ask you bout your cigarettes. I don’t wanna smoke them. I ask you bout my cigarettes. I wanna know if you brought my cigarettes.” Someone four cells down screamed and called out in his sleep: “Irene, why did you do this to me? Irene, ain’t love worth a damn anymore?” Someone else told him to shut up or he would get a king-sized dick in his mouth. “I told you I do not have any cigarettes,” Horace said. “You know, you ain’t worth shit,” the man said. “You take the cake and mess it all up. You really do. Now, you know you was comin to jail, so why didn’t you bring my goddam smokes? What kinda fuckin consideration is that?” Horace decided to say nothing. He raised first one leg and then the other and shook them, hoping that would relieve the aches. Slowly, he turned around to face the bars. No one had told him what was going to happen to him. He knew a lawyer, but he did not know if he was still practicing. He had friends, but he did not want any of them to see him in jail. He hoped the man would go to sleep. “Don’t turn your fuckin back on me after all we meant to each other,” the man said. “We have this long relationship and you do this to me. Whas wrong with you, Daddy?” “Look,” Horace said, turning back to the man. “I done told you I ain’t got no smokes. I ain’t got your smokes. I ain’t got my smokes. I ain’t got nobody’s smokes. Why can’t you understand that?” He was aware that he was veering away from the white man’s English, but he knew that his friend from Germany was probably home asleep safely in his bed. “I can’t give you what I don’t have.” Men were murdered in the D.C. jail, or so the Washington Post told him. “Can’t you understand what I’m sayin?” His back stayed as close to the bars as he could manage. Who was this Irene, he thought, and what had she done to steal into a man’s dreams that way? “So, Daddy, it’s gonna be like that, huh?” the man said, raising his head and pushing the foot of the upper-bunk man out of the way so he could see Horace better. He took his hand out of his crotch and pointed at Horace. “You gon pull a Peter-and-Jesus thing on me and deny you ever knew me, huh? Thas your plan, Daddy?” He lowered his head back to the black-and-white striped pillow. “I’ve seen some low-down dirty shit in my day, but you the lowest. After our long relationship and everything.” “I never met you in my life,” Horace said, grabbing the bars behind him with both hands, hoping, again, for relief. “I won’t forget this, and you know how long my memory is. First, you don’t bring me my smokes, like you know you should. Then you deny all that we had. Don’t go to sleep in here, Daddy, thas all I gotta say.” He thought of Reilly Johnson, a man he had worked with in the Pentagon. Reilly considered himself something of a photographer. He had taken the picture of Horace with the Secretary of Defense. What would the bail be? Would Reilly be at home to receive his call on a Sunday morning? Would they give him bail? The policemen who pulled him from his bed had tsk-tsked in his face. “Sellin drugs and corruptin young people like that?” “I didn’t know nothin about that, Officer. Please.” “Tsk tsk. An old man like you.” “The world ain’t big enough for you to hide from my righteous wrath, Daddy. And you know how righteous I can be when I get started. The world ain’t big enough, so you know this jail ain’t big enough.” Horace turned back to the bars. Was something in the back as painful as something in the stomach? He touched his face. Rarely, even in the lost months with Catrina, had he failed to shave each morning. A man’s capable demeanor started with a shave each morning, his sergeant in boot camp had told him a thousand years ago. The man down the way began calling for Irene again. Irene, Horace called in his mind. Irene, are you out there? No one told the man to be quiet. It was about seven and the whole building was waking up and the man calling Irene was not the loudest sound in the world anymore. “Daddy, you got my smokes? Could use my smokes right about now.” Horace, unable to stand anymore, slowly sank to the floor. There he found some relief. The more he sat, the more he began to play over the arrest. He had had money in his pocket when he took off his pants the night before, but there was no money when they booked him. And where had Catrina and Elaine been when the police marched him out of the apartment and down to the paddy wagon, with the Sunset’s female security guard standing behind her desk with an “Oh, yes, I told you so” look? Where had they been? He had not seen them. He stretched out his legs and they touched the feet of the sleeping man on the floor. The man roused. “Love don’t mean shit anymore,” the man on the lower bunk said. It was loud enough to wake the man on the floor all the way, and that man sat up and covered his chest with his blanket and looked at Horace, blinking and blinking and getting a clearer picture of Horace the more he blinked. Reilly did not come for him until the middle of Monday afternoon. Somebody opened the cell door and at first Horace thought the policeman was coming to get one of his cellmates. “Homer Parkins,” the man with the keys said. The doors were supposed to open electronically, but that system had not worked in a long time. “Thas me,” Horace said and got to his feet. As he and the man with the keys walked past the other cells, someone said to Horace, “Hey, Pops, you ain’t too old to learn to suck dick.” “Keep moving,” the man with the keys said. “Pops, I’ll give you a lesson when you come back.” As they poured his things out of a large manila envelope, the two guards behind the desk whispered and laughed. “Everything there?” one of them asked Horace. “Yes.” “Well, good,” the guard said. “I guess we’ll be seein you on your next trip here.” “Oh, leave that old man alone. He’s somebody’s grandfather.” “When they start that old,” the first man said, “it gets in their system and they can’t stop. Ain’t that right, Pops?” He and Reilly did not say very much after Reilly said he had been surprised to hear from Horace and that he had wondered what had happened to him since Loneese died. Horace said he was eternally grateful to Reilly for bailing him out and that it was all a mistake as well as a long story that he would soon share with him. At Sunset, Reilly offered to take him out for a meal, but Horace said he would have to take a rain check. “Rain check?” Reilly said, smiling. “I didn’t think they said that anymore.” The key to the apartment worked the way it always had, but something was blocking the door, and he had to force it open. Inside, he found destruction everywhere. On top of the clothes and the mementos of his life, strewn across the table and the couch and the floor were hundreds and hundreds of broken records. He took three steps into the room and began to cry. He turned around and around, hoping for something that would tell him it was not as bad as his eyes first reported. But there was little hope—the salt and pepper shakers had not been touched, the curtains covering the glass door were intact. There was not much beyond that for him to cling to. He thought immediately of Catrina and Elaine. What had he done to deserve this? Had he not always shown them a good and kind heart? He covered his eyes, but that seemed only to produce more tears, and when he lowered his hands the room danced before him through the tears. To steady himself, he put both hands on the table, which was covered in instant coffee and sugar. He brushed broken glass off the chair nearest him and sat down. He had not got it all off, and he felt what was left through his pants and underwear. He tried to look around but got no farther than the picture with the Secretary of Defense. It had two cracks in it, one running north to south and the other going northwest to southeast. The photograph was tilting, too, and something told him that if he could straighten the picture it all might not be so bad. He reached out a hand, still crying, but he could not move from the chair. He stayed as he was through the afternoon and late into the evening, not once moving from the chair, though the tears did stop around five o’clock. Night came and he still did not move. My name is Horace Perkins, he thought just as the sun set. My name is Horace Perkins and I worked many a year at the Pentagon. The apartment became dark, but he did not have it in him to turn on the lights. The knocking had been going on for more than ten minutes when he finally heard it. He got up, stumbling over debris, and opened the door. Elaine stood there with Darnell, Jr., in her arms. “Horace, you O.K.? I been comin by. I been worried about you, Horace.” He said nothing but opened the door enough for her and the baby to enter. “It’s dark, Horace. What about some light?” He righted the lamp on the table and turned it on. “Jesus in Heaven, Horace! What happened! My Lord Jesus! I can’t believe this.” The baby, startled by his mother’s words, began to cry. “It’s O.K.,” she said to him, “It’s O.K.,” and gradually the baby calmed down. “Oh, Horace, I’m so sorry. I really am. This is the worst thing I’ve ever seen in my life.” She touched his shoulder with her free hand, but he shrugged it off. “Oh, my dear God! Who could do this?” She went to the couch and moved enough trash aside for the baby. She pulled a pacifier from her sweater pocket, put it momentarily in her mouth to remove the lint, then put it in the baby’s mouth. He appeared satisfied and leaned back on the couch. She went to Horace, and right away he grabbed her throat. “I’m gonna kill you tonight!” he shouted. “I just wish that bitch Catrina was here so I could kill her, too.” Elaine struggled and sputtered out one “please” before he gripped her tighter. She beat his arms but that seemed to give him more strength. She began to cry. “I’m gonna kill you tonight, girl, if it’s the last thing I do.” The baby began to cry, and she turned her head as much as she could to look at him. This made him slap her twice, and she started to fall, and he pulled her up and, as he did, went for a better grip, which was time enough for her to say, “Don’t kill me in front of my son, Horace.” He loosened his hands. “Don’t kill me in front of my boy, Horace.” Her tears ran down her face and over and into his hands. “He don’t deserve to see me die. You know that, Horace.” “Where, then!” “Anywhere but in front of him. He’s innocent of everything.” He let her go and backed away. “I did nothin, Horace,” she whispered. “I give you my word, I did nothin.” The baby screamed, and she went to him and took him in her arms. Horace sat down in the same chair he had been in. “I would not do this to you, Horace.” He looked at her and at the baby, who could not take his eyes off Horace, even through his tears. One of the baby’s cries seemed to get stuck in his throat, and to release it the baby raised a fist and punched the air, and finally the cry came free. How does a man start over with nothing? Horace thought. Elaine came near him, and the baby still watched him as his crying lessened. How does a man start from scratch? He leaned down and picked up a few of the broken albums from the floor and read the labels. “I would not hurt you for anything in the world, Horace,” Elaine said. Okeh Phonograph Corporation. Domino Record Co. RCA Victor. Darnell, Jr.,’s crying stopped, but he continued to look down at the top of Horace’s head. Cameo Record Corporation, N.Y. “You been too good to me for me to hurt you like this, Horace.” He dropped the records one at a time: “It Takes an Irishman to Make Love.” “I’m Gonna Pin a Medal on the Girl I Left Behind.” “Ragtime Soldier Man.” “Whose Little Heart Are You Breaking Now.” “The Syncopated Walk.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
View From a Headlock	“Let me see it for a minute.” Let me see it: you saw a basketball or a pack of baseball cards or a plastic water gun by taking it into your hands, and what happened after that was in doubt. Ownership depended mostly on not letting anyone see anything. If you let a kid see a bottle of Yoo-hoo for a minute, he’d drink what was left of it. “Let me see it, let me check it out. I only want to take it for a ride.” Dylan Ebdus gripped the handlebars. His father had pried off the training wheels the day before, and Dylan still wobbled, still scuffed with his sneakers groping away from the pedals to steady and brake against the sidewalk. “Only if you stay on the block,” Dylan said, miserably. “You afraid I’m gonna take it? I just want a ride. You get it back after that, you got it all day, man. Just let me go around the block.” It was a trap or a puzzle, the way Robert Woolfolk already knew to work Dylan’s guilt. And the empty block conspired to leave Dylan alone to solve it. Robert Woolfolk was a kid who carried a vacuum around with him, or revealed by his presence the vacuum on Dean Street, the expanse of moments when no one saw and no one knew what happened in plain sight, when all of the block was shrouded in daylight. Robert Woolfolk added his hands to the handlebars beside Dylan’s and tugged gently at the bike. “Stay on the block.” “Around once, that’s all.” “No, I mean stay in front of the house.” “What, you think I’m not coming back? Just around the block.” What came out of Robert Woolfolk’s mouth was petition and chant, irresistible in its illogic. His eyes, meanwhile, were hard, a little bored. “Just once around.” Robert Woolfolk’s legs were too long to unfold in the span between seat and pedals, so he rode with his knees doubled and knobbing up near the handlebars, like a clown on a tricycle. Then he changed his approach, elevated his hips above the seat to stand on the pedals and pump side to side, elbows flaring. The bike teetered, annexed to Robert Woolfolk’s stretching limbs. Like that, a vanishing pile of elbows, he took the bike around the corner of Nevins. How long did it take to go around the block? How long was twice as long as that? The tonguelike latch of Dylan’s black ironwork gate rattled with the vibration of a bus going by. Though there were no trees on the Nevins end of Dean Street, red fallen leaves had blown into the gutter from somewhere. The plastic milk cartons in front of the bodega claimed you could be fined or go to jail for not returning them to May Creek Farm, Incorporated, a fairly unlikely destination if you gave it any thought. The afternoon withered like a balloon around Dylan on his stoop, waiting for Robert Woolfolk to return. The minutes accumulated, stacked up indifferently on the distant face of the Williamsburg Savings Bank tower clock. Nevins Street might as well have been a canyon into which Robert Woolfolk had vanished like a cartoon coyote, wordlessly, trailing puffs of dust. It was pretty much as if there had never been a bike. The last thing Dylan Ebdus’s mother, Rachel, had taught him, before she left Dylan’s father and vanished from their home, was the word “gentrification.” They were walking home to Dean Street from Flatbush Avenue, on a rare jaunt past the slummy blocks east of Nevins. Rachel was trying, perhaps, to make him understand Brooklyn, the world into which she was about to abandon him. There were two worlds, anyway. In one, his father paced upstairs, creaked chairs, painted, while his mother, downstairs, played records, ran water over dishes, laughed on the telephone, her voice trailing up the curve of the long stair. His mother’s spaces—the parlor, full of her books and records, the kitchen, where she cooked and laughed and argued on the phone, her table littered with newspapers and cigarettes and wineglasses—were for Dylan full of unpredictability and unrest, like his mother herself. Dylan’s solitude, which his father left unbruised, his mother burst like a grape. She might clutch him and, with fingers kneading his skull through his hair, say, “You’re so beautiful, so beautiful, you’re such a beautiful boy,” or just as likely sit apart from him smoking a cigarette and say, “Where did you come from? Why are you here? Why am I here?” or “You know, precious child, that your father is insane.” She was wild with information he couldn’t yet use: Nixon was a criminal, the Dodgers moved to California, Chinese food gives you a headache, Muhammad Ali resisted the war and went to jail, Hitchcock’s British films were better than his American ones, circumcision was unnecessary but women preferred it. Dylan worked Rachel’s margins, dodging her main force to dip sidelong into what he could make sense of. He tiptoed close under the cover of Rachel’s monologue, thinking it was another phone call, to find someone seated at her table instead, drinking iced tea, sharing Rachel’s ashtray, laughing, listening, detecting Dylan’s footfalls, which Rachel had ignored. Then Rachel would stir from her chair, cigarette in her fingers, and usher Dylan to the front door, point out the children playing on the sidewalk, insist that he join them. Rachel had a program, a plan. She had grown up a Brooklyn street kid and so would Dylan. And so she’d eject him from the first of his two worlds, the house, into the second. The outside, the block. Dean Street. Brooklyn. “Gentrification” was a Nixon word, uncool. “If someone asks you, say you live in Gowanus,” she said. “Don’t be ashamed. Boerum Hill is pretentious bullshit.” Rachel sprayed language as the hydrant opened by the Puerto Rican kids around the corner on Nevins on the hottest days that year sprayed water, unstoppered, gushing. “Never let me hear you say the word ‘nigger,’ ” she said, whispering it heavily, lusciously. “That’s the only word you can’t ever say, not even to yourself. In Brooklyn Heights they call them animals, they call the projects a zoo. Those uptight reactionaries deserve the break-ins. They ought to lose their quadraphonic stereos. We’re here to live. Gowanus Canal, Gowanus Houses, Gowanus people. The Creature from the Gowanus Lagoon!” She inflated her cheeks and curled her fingers and attacked him. Her raven hair haloed in sunlight, her fingertips stained with nicotine or marijuana. Brooklyn was actually simple compared with his mother. “A gang from the Gowanus Houses picked up a fifth grader after school and took him into the park and they had a knife and they were daring each other and they cut off his balls,” she told him. “He didn’t fight or scream or anything. It’s not too soon for you to know, my profound child, the world is nuttier than a fruitcake. Run if you can’t fight, run and scream ‘fire’ or ‘rape,’ be wilder than they are, wear flames in your hair, that’s my recommendation.” Rachel wasn’t fully responsible for what she said, Dylan knew. She was afraid, too. Dylan’s role was to unravel what she said and ignore ninety per cent of it, to solve her. “That beautiful black man who moved next door is Barrett Rude, Jr., he’s a singer, he was in the Distinctions, he’s got this amazing voice, he sounds just like Sam Cooke. I actually once saw them, opening for the Stones. His son is your age. He’s going to be your new best friend before the end of the summer, that’s my prediction.” It was the last of Rachel’s setups. Her last chance to steer him into a Brooklyn future. Dylan Ebdus, one-man integration unit. “You like comics?” Mingus Rude said, the first day they met. “Sure,” Dylan said, unsure. Mingus Rude excavated four comic books from his closet floor, Daredevil #77, Ghost Rider #4, Doctor Strange #12, The Incredible Hulk #68. They’d been tenderly handled to death, corners rounded, paper browned by hot, attentive breath, pages chewed by eyes. “mingus rude” was written in slanted ballpoint capitals on each first interior page. Mingus read certain panels aloud, incanting them, shaping Dylan’s attention, shaping his own. Dylan felt himself permeated by some ray of attention. He felt an uncanny warmth in the half of his chest that was turned toward Mingus. “You know what they say now? Doctor Strange could take the Incredible Hulk by making some kind of mystical cage but he couldn’t take Thor because Thor’s a godlike figure, as long as he doesn’t lose his hammer. If he loses his hammer dude’s nothing better than a cripple.” “Who’s Thor?” “You’ll see. You know where to buy comics?” “Uh, yeah.” “Ever steal comics?” “No.” “It’s no big thing. You go to camp this year?” “No.” No year, Dylan almost said. He’d found an artifact on Mingus’s dresser, a sort of tuning fork. “That’s a pick,” said Mingus. “Oh.” “Like a comb, for black hair. Want to see a gold record?” Dylan nodded mutely, dropped the pick. Mingus Rude was a world, an exploding bomb of possibilities. Dylan was already jealous, wondering how long he’d be able to keep the new kid to himself. They crept upstairs. Barrett Rude, Jr., had placed his bed opposite the heavily ornate marble mantelpiece, behind the shaded light of the tall windows, the showpiece windows meant for front parlors filled with pianos and upholstery, eighteenth-century Bibles on stands, who knew what else. Barrett Rude, Jr.,’s bed, which lay on the floor there under the scrolled Dutch ceiling, was a wide flat bag filled, as Mingus Rude demonstrated in passing with a neat two-palmed shove, with actual water, an undulating sea trapped in slick sheets. The two gold records were, oddly, just what their name promised, gold records, 45s, glued to white matting and framed in stained aluminum, not up on the bare walls but propped on the crowded mantel beside balled dollar bills and empty packs of Kools. Mingus led Dylan to the back yard, where they winged rocks into the sky, let them plop into the Puerto Ricans’ yard. The air smelled like somebody’s arm up close. You could hear the steady ding of a Mister Softee truck on Bergen Street, probably with a string of the usual kids hanging on it. “I guess you know my mother’s white,” Mingus said. “Sure.” “White women like black men, you heard that, right?” “Uh, sure.” “My father don’t talk to that lying bitch no more.” He followed this with a sharp laugh of self-surprise. “He paid a million dollars for me. That’s what he had to pay to get me back, a million cold. You can ask him if you think I’m lying.” “I believe you.” “I don’t care if you believe me, it’s true.” Dylan looked at Mingus Rude’s lips and eyes, his exact brownness, took it in. Dylan wanted to read Mingus Rude like a language, wanted to know if the new kid had changed Dean Street or only changed Dylan himself by arriving here. Mingus Rude breathed through his mouth. The palms of his hands were as white as Dylan’s. He wore corduroys. Anything was possible, really. A million-dollar kid doesn’t belong on Dean Street, Dylan wanted to say. The word “million,” even. Mingus Rude was a scant four months older than Dylan Ebdus, but those months hit the calendar such that Mingus was a grade ahead. He’d start sixth grade this year, at the Intermediate School 293 Annex, in the turf of the Gowanus Houses: no man’s land. If Mingus were four months younger, then he and Dylan would have been heading to grade five at P.S. 38 together. A grade of school was a bridge in mist. No way to picture where it touched land again, or who you’d be when it did. You met zones everywhere. The schoolyard was neighborhoods: black, black girl, Puerto Rican, basketball, handball, left behind. Black girls had a language of partial words, chants harder to learn than anything in class. The place was a cage for growing, nothing else. You couldn’t be left back from fish sticks and sloppy joes. There was a general noise at the edges you’d begun to detect, akin to indecipherable ballpoint desktop gougings. A scribbled voice. The first few times someone said, “Hey, white boy,” it sounded like a mistake. You had to be guided into the new relation by the girls, the boys were actually a little shy about it. Older kids bunched at the school entrances and in corners of the yard. Robert Woolfolk was among them, the lurkers. Even standing in one place, Woolfolk moved like a sprained knee, like he was forever angling a too-small bike around the corner of Nevins. Dylan Ebdus and Mingus Rude: one crossing the street to dodge a clump of kids from the projects, keeping his white face hidden in a jacket hood, the other hanging in loose gangs of black kids after school, then walking alone to Dean Street. The two of them, a fifth grader and a sixth, stranded in zones, in selves. White kid, black kid, Captain America and The Falcon, Luke Cage and Iron Fist. Returning from different schools to the same block, two brownstones, two fathers, Abraham Ebdus and Barrett Rude, Jr., each wrinkling back foil edges on TV dinners to discover peas and carrots that had invaded the mashed potatoes and Salisbury steak, setting them on the table in dour silence. Dinner in silence or to the sound of the television drowned by the baying of sirens, Nevins Street a fire lane, a path of destruction, the projects flaring up again, an apartment on the eighteenth floor with a smoldering mattress pushed halfway out the window, stuck. The grid of zones, the huddled brownstone streets between prison and projects, Wyckoff Gardens, Gowanus Houses. The whores on Nevins and Pacific. The high-school kids pouring out of Sarah J. Hale all afternoon, black girls already bigger than yo mama, Third Avenue another no man’s land, the empty lot where they raped that girl. The halfway house. It was all halfway, you walked out of your halfway school and tried to chart a course through your halfway neighborhood to make it back to your own halfway house, your half-empty house. Afternoons after school, Dylan could hear the telephone ring from the kitchen while he sat out on his stoop, waiting, watching, afternoons sliding to twilight, as the traffic trickled down Nevins, mothers walked kindergartners home from the Y.W.C.A., buses drifted like humming loaves to the stoplight, waited, drifted on. It was a season of vanishing, of a silence like raw stupidity, like the unbearable ticking silence of a teacher expecting an answer from a kid everyone knew couldn’t even say his own name right. Let his father answer the phone, if he could even hear it. Let him say she’s not here. Dylan’s father lacked Rachel’s street-readiness. His disapproval or his affection were usually aspects of a floating arrangement of father-notions, largely sonic: footsteps pacing overhead, a voice descending stairs. One or two afternoons a week Mingus would lope down the block and raise his hand in greeting. He carried his notebook and textbooks loose under his arm, no bag, and he’d clatter them on the stoop carelessly, expressing something less than utter disdain and more than total mastery. They never discussed fifth or sixth grade, stuff too basic and mysterious to mention. Instead they read comics, shoulders hunched to protect the flimsy covers from the wind, puzzling out the last dram, the last square inch of information, the credits, the letters page, the copyright, the Sea Monkeys ads, the insult that made a man out of Mac. Then, just when Dylan had thought he was alone, Dean Street came back to life, Mingus Rude knowing everyone, saying yo to a million different kids coming out of Ramirez’s store with a Yoo-hoo or a Pixy Stix, to Alberto fetching Schlitz and Marlboros for his older brother. Mothers calling kids inside, the bus lit inside now, fat ladies coming home from offices at the Board of Education, on Livingston Street, their weary shapes like black teeth inside the glowing mouth of the bus, the light fading, street lights buzzing as they lit, their arched poles decorated with boomeranged-up sneakers, and Mingus Rude saying, one dying afternoon, eyes never ungluing from a panel in Marvel’s Greatest Comics in which Mr. Fantastic had balled himself into an orb the size of a baseball in order to be shot from a bazooka into the vulnerable mouth of an otherwise impervious fifty-foot-tall robot named Tomazooma, the Living Totem, “Your moms is still gone?” “Yeah.” “Dang, man. That’s fucked up.” Then, sixth grade. Intermediate School 293. As before, Mingus had leapfrogged from the sixth-grade annex building where Dylan now was to the main building, a block away, where the seventh and eighth graders were housed. This was the year of the headlock, the year of the yoke, Dylan’s heat-flushed cheeks wedged into one or another black kid’s elbow, book bag skidding to the gutter, pockets rapidly, easily frisked for lunch money or a bus pass. On Hoyt Street, on Bergen, on Wyckoff if he was stupid enough to walk on Wyckoff. On Dean Street, even, one block from home, before the dead eyes of the brownstones. Adults, teachers, they were remote, blind, indifferent. Dylan, he was a bug on a grid of slate, white boy walking. “Yoke him, man,” they’d say, exhorting. He was the object, the occasion, it was irrelevant what he overheard. “Yoke the white boy. Do it, nigger.” He might be yoked low, bent over, hugged to someone’s hip then spun on release like a human top, legs buckling, crossing at the ankles. Or from behind, never sure by whom once the headlock popped loose and three or four guys stood around, witnesses with hard eyes, shaking their heads at the sheer dumb luck of being white. It was as routine as laughter. Yoking erupted spontaneously, a joke of fear, a piece of kidding. He was dismissed from it as from an episode of light street theatre. “Nobody hurt you, man. It ain’t for real. You know we was just fooling with you, right?” They’d spring away, leave him tottering, hyperventilating, while they high-fived, more like amazed spectators than perpetrators. If Dylan choked or whined they were perplexed and slightly disappointed at the white boy’s hysteria. On those occasions, they’d pick up his books or hat and press them on him, tuck him back together. A ghost of fondness lived in a headlock’s shadow. Yoker and yokee had forged a funny compact. You regularly promised your enemies that what you did together had no name. Dylan leaked saliva, tears. On a cold day a nostril-path of snot. Once, pee. He’d bite his tongue and taste the seepage, the tang of humiliation swallowed back. They made faces, rolled eyes. Dylan was hopeless, stained with shame. They’d try to overlook it. “Boy bleeds you touch him, dang.” “Nah, man, he all right. Let him alone, man.” “You ain’t gonna say nothing, right? ’Cause you know we just messin’ around. We wouldn’t never do nothin’ to you, man.” He’d nod, collect himself. Wait to be congratulated for gulping back a clog of tears, for exhibiting silence. “See? You pretty cool, for a white boy. Get outta here now.” White boy was his name. He’d grown into it, crossed a line, become visible. He shined like free money. The price of the name was whatever was in his pockets at the time, fifty cents or a dollar. “White boy, lemme talk to you for a minute.” Head tipped sideways, too lazy to take hands from pockets to summon him. One black kid, two, three. Eyes rolled, laughing. The whole event a quotation of itself, a little boring. If he ignored it, tried to keep walking: “Yo, white boy! I’m talking to you, man.” “What’s the matter, you can’t hear?” No. Yes. “You don’t like me, man?” Helpless. The fact of it: he’d cross the street to have his pockets emptied. “Just come here for a minute, man, I ain’t gonna hurt you. What you gotta be afraid for? Dang, man. You think I’m gonna hurt you?” No. Yes. The logic was insane, except as a polyrhythm of fear and reassurance, a seduction. “What you afraid of? You a racist, man?” “Who you looking for? Ain’t nobody gonna help you, man.” “Nah, man, chill out. This white boy’s all right, he’s cool. You don’t got to fuck with him.” “Fuck he starin’ at me for, then? Yo, man, you a racist motherfucker? I might have to fuck up your stupid ass, just for that.” “Nah, man, shut up, he’s cool. You cool, right, man? Hey, you got a dollar you could loan me?” The distillation, the question at the core of the puzzle, asked a million times, a million ways: “What you lookin’ at?” “Fuck you lookin’ at, man?” “Don’t look at me, white boy. I’ll slap you, motherfucker.” Here was what Robert Woolfolk had prepared him for. The bicycle thief had awarded Dylan the gift of his own shame, his mummy’s silence, for use on a daily basis. Each encounter bore Robert’s signature tilted logic, interrogations spinning nowhere, ritual assurance that nothing had actually happened. And the guilt of Dylan’s whiteness excusing everything, covering it all. What the fuck am I looking at? If Dylan ever lifted his eyes from the pavement he might have been casting around for a grownup, or some older kid he knew to bail him out. Mingus Rude, say, not that he was clear he’d want Mingus to see him this way, cowering at the prospect of a yoke, white boy with cheeks hate-red. And he never allowed himself to say what he thought a hundred times: Hey, I’m not racist, my best friend is black! It wasn’t halfway sayable. Besides, nobody had ever said who was whose best friend. Mingus Rude likely had a million of them, seventh graders, black, white, who knew. And Dylan could have said black aloud about as easily as Fucking looking at motherfucking YOU, man! One afternoon, near the finish of that sixth-grade spring, Mingus Rude was waiting for Dylan at the bottom of his stoop. Mingus wore a military-green jacket though it was too warm for a jacket, and the jacket clanked, full of some metallic something that had been pushed through torn pockets to nestle in the lining. The jacket’s back panel bore Mingus’s tag, Dose, elaborately surrounded by asterisk-like stars and swooping punctuation. Dylan pushed his schoolbag just inside Mingus’s basement door and they slouched their way together down Dean Street. They crept wordlessly into Brooklyn Heights, away from Dean Street, putting the Gowanus Houses at their backs, skirting I.S. 293 entirely. They were invisible in the throngs on Montague Street, the three-o’clock flood of private-school kids from Packer Institute and Saint Ann’s and Brooklyn Friends. The Heights kids clustered around the Burger King and the Baskin-Robbins in giddy crowds, boys mixed with girls, all in corduroys and Lacoste shirts, flutes and clarinets in leather cases heaped carelessly with their backpacks at their feet, their senses so bound up in a private cosmos of flirtation that Dylan and Mingus passed through them like an X-ray. Then a blond girl with an intricate mouthful of braces stepped out of her posse of look-alikes and called them over. Eyes wild with her own daring, she showed a cigarette. “Got a light?” Her friends busted up at the self-conscious comedy of it, but Mingus didn’t care. He dug in his jacket lining and pulled out a bright-blue lighter, like a Pez container that blurted a curl of fire. How she’d known he’d have it Dylan couldn’t fathom. The tone of the scene switched again, the girl leaned in, eyes narrowed ferally now, thrilled and wary, tilted her head, scooped her hair around her ear to protect it from the flame. She turned her back the moment the cigarette was lit and Dylan and Mingus moved on, dismissed. The Heights Promenade was a rim of park cantilevered over the shipyards, Brooklyn’s sulky lip. Old men and women pecked forward like pigeons on cobblestone, or sat frozen with clutched newspapers on benches in the face of Manhattan’s tedious spires, the skyline a channel no one watched that played anyway, like famous static. Dylan and Mingus were detectives, following clues. The trail was legible in gushy, streaked fonts on lamppost bases and mail-deposit boxes, fire-alarm poles, garage doors, finger-traced in dust on the panels of trucks. “Roto I,” “Bel I,” “Deal,” “Buster NSA,” “SuperStrut,” “FMD.” “Non Stop Action,” translated Mingus. He was hushed by the knowledge, his eyes unfocussed. Tags and their invisible authors were the next Marvel superheroes, the hidden lore. “Flow Master Dancers.” Roto and Bel and Deal were in DMD Crew, a new outfit from Atlantic Terminals, a housing project across Flatbush. SuperStrut was old school. The style might look funny now, but you wouldn’t disrespect it. The syllable “TOY” was written in mockery over certain tags, disrespect for a writer who was a toy. Mingus fished in his lining for his El Marko, a Magic Marker consisting of a puglike glass bottle stoppered with a fat wick of felt. Purple ink sloshed inside the tiny screw-top bottle, staining the glass in curtains of color. Mingus drew out a safety pin and stuck the felt in a dozen places, until the ink bled so freely it stained the green cuff of his oversized jacket. “Dose” went up on a lamppost, Mingus’s hand moving in studied arcs. A tag was a reply, a call to those who heard, like a dog’s bark understood across fences. A reply in moist purple. The letters dripped and stunk thrillingly. Every time they went up, Mingus hustled Dylan away, the El Marko clanking back in his jacket lining against the blue lighter and whatever else. Their path was a zigzag sentence consisting of a single word, “Dose,” written in blank spots found everywhere. Under oblivious eyes, the invisible autographed the world. The long path of the Promenade curled at the end in a small abandoned playground, two swings, a slide. Mingus took a minute to tag “Dose” on the heel-dented mercury sheen of the slide, a particularly juicy rendition with a dripping halo. He offered Dylan the El Marko. The purple-fingerprinted bottle rolled like something ripe in Mingus’s stained palm, a plum. “Go ahead,” he said. “Tag up. Hurry.” “How do I know what to write?” “Don’t you got a tag yet? Make one up.” Marvel Comics had it right, the world was all secret names, you only needed to uncover your own. White Boy? “Dillinger,” Dylan said. He stared, not quite reaching for the El Marko. “Too long, man. Something like Dill 3, D-Lone.” A Filipino babysitter creaked a stroller into the playground. Mingus slipped the marker into his jacket, tilted his head. “Let’s go.” You could flee a woman who was four feet tall with a baby lashed into a stroller, scramble away giddy and hysterical. It was only real threat that froze you where you stood, your feet like bricks, to dig in your pocket and offer up your bills and change. Mingus hoisted onto the fence surrounding the playground, swung a leg, dropped. Dylan, trying to follow, doubled himself on the fence. Mingus braced under Dylan’s arms while Dylan scrabbled with his foot. They fell together like cartoon cats in a sack on the other side. “Dang, son, get off me!” Dylan found his glasses where they’d tumbled in the grass. Mingus brushed at his pants, his jacket, like James Brown checking his suit for imaginary lint. He was grinning, lit up. A shard of leaf in the coils of his hair. “Get up, son, you’re on the ground!” Mingus at his happiest called Dylan “son” in a booming voice, another quotation, half Redd Foxx, half Foghorn Leghorn. He offered his hand, yanked Dylan to his feet. Dylan wanted to clear the leaf from Mingus’s hair but left it alone. They trudged down a grade to a hidden patch of land, a tilted triangle of desolate ailanthus and weeds, choked in exhaust at the edge of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, cars whirring indifferent below. The patch was littered with cigarette butts, forty-ounce bottles, shreds of tire—an oasis of neglect. Mingus leaned against the wall, and thumbed the blue lighter, held it sideways to the tip of a small, faucetlike chrome pipe, another surprise product of the green jacket’s lining. Head tilted, eyes squeezed in concentration, Mingus sipped at smoke, held it in with thin-pressed lips. Fumes leaked from his nose. He nodded his chin at Dylan, finally exhaled. “You want some weed?” “Nah.” Dylan tried to keep it breezy, an incidental turndown that could have gone either way. Below, trucks roared past, bearing their own graffiti markings from other parts of the city, alien communication spread by an indifferent carrier, like a virus. “I took it from my pops. He keeps it in the freezer.” “Does he know?” Dylan asked. Mingus shook his head. “He got so much, he won’t even notice.” He flicked the lighter again, the bowl of the pipe flaring orange, crackling faintly. Dylan worked not to tip his fascination. “You ever smoke weed?” “Sure,” Dylan lied. “It’s no big thing.” “It’s O.K., I did it before, I just don’t want to right now.” “Before?” “Sure,” Dylan said. “My mom’s a pothead.” As it came from his mouth Dylan felt he’d betrayed Rachel, played her like a card he didn’t mind losing. “Yeah, well, speaking of which, my moms kicked my father out for smoking drugs,” Mingus said. Having chipped in his own disaster, he went mute. Possibly mentioning anyone’s moms out loud, even your own, was miscalculation enough to blow an afternoon. You were never ineligible for a screwup like that—say the unsayable word and watch it foul the sky. Then you were right back where you didn’t want to be. Pinned to the grid. A white boy with no moms, squirming in the glare. Yoked. Yo mama. Mingus made the pipe disappear into his jacket. The two of them clambered back up the grade, scaled the fence easily, and in silence walked home, putting the Promenade behind them. Though Dylan was ready now to be offered the El Marko, ready to uncap the pinned-out, purple-soaked felt and feel it flow under his own hand, to discover his own graffiti name and to plop it dripping on the sides of lampposts beside Mingus’s “Dose,” they tagged nothing. Mingus’s hands remained buried in the pockets of the jacket, fists pushed into the lining to grip the lighter and the pipe and the El Marko so they didn’t clank together as they bounced against his thighs. Leaf still in his hair. The first day of seventh grade Dylan stood on the slate in front of Mingus Rude’s stoop, waiting. If Mingus would walk with him up Dean Street to Court, walk through the doors of the school with him, side by side, everything might be different. Women trudged little kids to kindergarten at the Y or moved alone up Nevins to the subway. A bunch of black girls swept up from the projects to high school. They shared a cigarette for breakfast, rumbled around the corner in a ball of smoke and laughter. It was the first day of school everywhere in the world, possibly. Only one thing wrong with this picture, as the block cleared, the bus breathed past, a dog barked in a cycle like code: Dylan standing in long pants and with his backpack full of unruined binder pages and dumb pencils. He felt like an apple skinned for inspection, already souring in the sun. Those dogs could tell and probably anybody else, too: he stank of panic. Dylan should have planned it with Mingus in advance, he saw now. Up the stoop, he rang the bell. He rang it again, shifting in his Keds, anxious, time ticking away, the day and the prospect of seventh grade rapidly spoiling with him in the sun. Then, like an irrational puppet, panicked, he leaned on the doorbell and let it ring in a continuous trill. He was still ringing it when the door opened. It wasn’t Mingus but Barrett Rude, Jr., in a white bathrobe, naked underneath, unhidden to the street, arms braced in the door, looking down. Face clotted with sleep, he blinked in the slanted, scouring light. He lifted his arm to cover his eyes with shade, looking like he wanted to wave the day off as a bad idea, a passing mistake. “Hell you doing, Little Dylan?” Dylan took a step backward from the door. “Don’t never be ringing my doorbell seven in the morning, man.” “Mingus—” “You’ll see Mingus at the got-damn school.” Barrett Rude was waking into his anger, his voice like a cloud of hammers. “Get out of here now.” It was entirely possible that one song could destroy your life. Yes, musical doom could fall on a lone human form and crush it like a bug. The song, that song, was sent from somewhere else to find you, to pick the scab of your whole existence. The song was your personal shitty fate, manifest as a throb of pop floating out of radios everywhere. At the very least the song was the soundtrack to your destruction, the theme. Your days reduced to a montage cut to its cowbell beat, inexorable doubled bass line and raunch vocal, a sort of chanted sneer, surrounded by groans of pleasure. The stutter and blurt of what—a tuba? French horn? Rhythm guitar and trumpet, pitched to mockery. The singer might as well have held a gun to your head. How could it have been allowed to happen, how could it have been allowed on the radio? That song ought to be illegal. It wasn’t racist—you’ll never sort that one out, don’t even start—so much as anti-you. Yes they were dancing, and singing / and movin’ to the groovin’ / and just when it hit me / somebody turned around and shouted— Every time your sneakers met the street, the end of that summer, somebody was hurling it at your head, that song. September 4, 1976, the week Dylan Ebdus began seventh grade in the main building on Court Street and Butler, Wild Cherry’s “Play That Funky Music” was the top song on the rhythm-and-blues charts. Fourteen days later it topped Billboard’s pop charts. Your misery’s anthem, No. 1 song in the nation. Sing it through gritted teeth: WHITE BOY! Lay down the boogie and play that funky music till you die. Seventh grade was where it turned out that when Dylan Ebdus finally joined Mingus Rude in the main building Mingus Rude was never there. It was as if Mingus walked another Dean Street to school, had actually all this time gone to another I.S. 293 entirely. The only evidence he existed was the proliferation of Dose tags on lampposts and mailboxes, Mingus’s handiwork spread in a nimbus with the school building at the center. Every few days, it seemed, produced a fresh supply. Dylan would covertly push a forefinger against the metal, wondering if he could measure in the tackiness of the ink the tag’s vintage. If his finger stuck slightly Dylan imagined he’d followed Mingus by minutes to the spot, barely missed catching him in the act. Seventh grade was sixth grade desublimated, uncorked. It was the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy to sixth grade’s “The Hobbit,” the real story at last, all the ominous foreshadowed stuff flushed from the margins and into view. It wasn’t for children, seventh grade. You could read the stress of even entering the building in the postures of the teachers, the security guards. Nobody could relax in such a racial and hormonal disaster area. Bodies ranged like ugly cartoons, as though someone without talent were scribbling in flesh. Chinese kids had apparently gotten some warning well in advance, and had thoroughly disappeared. Puerto Rican or Dominican kids seemed to be tiptoeing away from the scene of everything. They decorated themselves differently and spoke more Spanish each passing hour. The scariest fights were between black girls. There were just four other white kids in the school, three of them girls, with their own girl factors to work out. When Dylan Ebdus first spotted the fourth, Arthur Lomb, it was at a distance, across the schoolyard. It was like noticing the flight and fall of a bird across an expanse of leaf-blurred sky. It occurred at that moment after the bell had rung and the gym teachers who patrolled the yard had returned inside, ahead of the flood of students, and the yard became a lawless zone—that terrible sudden reframing of space which could happen anywhere, even inside the corridors of the school. Nevertheless it was a clumsy mistake for the boy now cringing on the ground to have been caught on the side of the yard so far from the entrance, a mistake Dylan felt he couldn’t forgive. He wouldn’t have forgiven it in himself. Arthur Lomb fell to his knees and clutched his chest and keened. His words were briefly audible across the depopulating yard, each syllable riding a sharp insuck of air, “I!” Pause. “Can’t!” Pause. “Breathe!” Arthur Lomb was pretending asthma or some other weakness. It was an identifiable method: preëmptive suffering. Nobody could do much with a kid who was already crying. He had no spirit to crush and it was faintly disgusting, in poor taste. He might even be truly sick, fucked up, in pain, who knew? Your only option was to say, “Dang, white boy, what’s your problem? I didn’t even touch you.” And move on. Dylan admired the strategy, feeling at once a cool quiver of recognition and a hot bolt of shame. He felt that he was seeing his double, his stand-in. It was at least true that any punishment Arthur Lomb endured was likely otherwise to be Dylan’s, or anyway that a gang of black kids couldn’t knock Dylan to the pavement or put him in a yoke at the exact moment they were busy doing it to Arthur Lomb. From that point on Arthur Lomb’s reddish hair and hunched shoulders were easy to spot. He dressed in conspicuous striped polo shirts and wore soft brown shoes, and carried an enormous bright-blue backpack, an additional blight. All his schoolbooks must be inside, or maybe a couple of stone tablets. The bag glowed as a target, begged to be jerked downward, to crumple Arthur Lomb to the corridor floor to enact his shortness-of-breath routine. Dylan had seen it done five times already before he and Arthur Lomb ever spoke. Dylan had even heard kids chanting the song at Arthur Lomb as they slapped at his reddened neck or the top of his head while he squirmed on the floor. Play that fucking music, white boy! Stretching the last two words to a groaning, derisive, Bugs Bunnyesque whyyyyyyyboy! It was in the library that they finally spoke. Dylan and Arthur Lomb’s two homerooms had been deposited there together for a period, the school librarian covering some unexplained absence of teachers. Below a poster advertising “A Hero Ain’t Nothin’ but a Sandwich,” a book the library didn’t actually offer, Dylan placed himself against a wall and flipped open issue No. 2 of the Marvel Comics adaptation of “Logan’s Run.” As the period ticked away glacially, Arthur Lomb buzzed him twice, squinting to see the title of the comic, then pursing his lips in false concentration as he mimed browsing the half-empty shelves nearby, before stepping close enough for Dylan to hear him speak in an angry, clenched whisper. “That guy George Perez can’t draw Farrah Fawcett to save his life.” It was a startling allusion to several bodies of knowledge simultaneously. Dylan could only glare, his curiosity mingled with the certainty that he and Arthur Lomb were more objectionable, more unpardonable, together than apart. Up close, Arthur Lomb had a blinky agitated quality to his features which made Dylan want to knock him down himself. His face seemed to reach for something, his features like a grasping hand. Dylan wondered if there might be a pair of glasses tucked in the background somewhere, perhaps in a side pocket of the monumental blue backpack. “Seen it?” “What?” “ ‘Logan’s Run.’ ” Fuck you looking at? Dylan wanted to shriek at Arthur Lomb, before it was too late, before he succumbed to his loneliness and allowed himself to meet Arthur, the other white boy. “Not yet,” Dylan said instead. “Farrah Fawcett is a fox.” Dylan didn’t answer. “Don’t feel bad. I bought ten copies of Logan’s Run #1.” Arthur Lomb spoke in a hurried whisper, showing some awareness of his surroundings, but compelled to spill what he had, to force Dylan to know him. “You have to buy No. 1s, it’s an investment. I’ve got ten of Eternals, ten of 2001, ten of Omega, ten of Kobra. And all those comics stink. No. 1’s a No. 1, doesn’t matter. You know Fantastic Four #1 goes for four hundred dollars? Kobra might be an all-time record for the stupidest character ever. Doesn’t matter. Put it in plastic and put it on the shelf, that’s what I say. You use plastic, don’t you?” “Of course,” Dylan said resentfully. He understood every word Arthur Lomb said. Worse, he felt his sensibility colonized by Arthur’s, his future interests coöpted. The writing was on the wall. If Mingus didn’t resurface, Dylan and Arthur were doomed to friendship. A day later, Mingus did resurface. At three o’clock, the hour when the doors were thrown open and the school exploded onto the October-bright pavement, when Court Street shopkeepers stood arms-crossed in doorways, their jaws chewing gum or nothing at all, just chewing under narrowed eyes. Dylan tried to be lost in the flow of anonymous faces as he left the building, hoping to be carried a distance down Court Street disguised in a clot of anybodies before exposing himself as a solitary white boy. Today he stopped. Mingus sat cross-legged on the hump of a mailbox on the corner of Court and Butler, regarding the manic outflow of kids with a Buddha’s calm, as though from an even greater height than the mailbox, another planet maybe. Dylan understood at once that not only hadn’t Mingus been inside the school today, he hadn’t crossed its doors since summer, since the start of his eighth-grade year. “Yo, Dill-Man!” said Mingus, laughing. “I was looking for you, man. Where you been?” Mingus unfolded his legs and slid off the mailbox, pulled Dylan sideways out of the crowd, like there was never a question they left school together, like they’d done it every day for three weeks. They crossed into Cobble Hill, Dylan hitching his backpack high on his shoulders and trotting to keep up. “I haven’t seen you—” Dylan began. “ ‘Whenever you call me, I’ll be there,’ ” Mingus sang, “ ‘Whenever you need me, I’ll be there—I been a-round!’ Here.” He crumpled a couple of dollars into Dylan’s hands and nodded at the Arab newsstand on the corner of Clinton. “Get me a pack of Kools, Super-D.” He tipped his head again. “I’ll be over here.” “I can’t buy cigarettes.” “Say it’s for your mom, he’ll sell it to you, don’t worry. Better let me hold your backpack.” Dylan tried not to turn his head at the rack of comics as he stepped into the narrow, darkened space of the newsstand. “Uh, pack of Kools. It’s for my mother.” The operation unfolded precisely as scripted. The guy raised an eyebrow at the word “mother,” then slid the Kools across the linoleum counter with nothing besides a grunt. Mingus stashed both cigarettes and change in his jacket-of-mystery, then led Dylan back toward the small park on Amity Street. “Dill-Man, D-Lone, Dillinger,” Mingus chanted. “Diggity Dog, Deputy Dog, Dillimatic.” “I haven’t seen you anywhere,” Dylan said, unable to check the plaint in his voice. “You all right, man?” Mingus asked. “Everything cool with you?” Dylan knew precisely what everything Mingus meant—all of seventh grade, whatever went on or didn’t inside the building that was apparently no longer Mingus’s problem. “Everything cool?” Mingus demanded. Mingus Rude was unreachable, blurred, maybe high, Dylan saw now. There wasn’t going to be any communing with his core, that vivid happy sadness which called out to Dylan’s own. Dylan shrugged, said, “Sure.” “That’s all I want to know, man. You know you’re my main man, Dillinger. D-Train.” As they slipped into the park, Mingus exaggerated his ordinary lope, raised a hand in dreamy salute. Arrayed at the concrete chessboard tables were three black teen-agers in assorted slung poses. One more chaotically slung than the others, a signature geometry of limbs that caused Dylan’s heart to madly lurch. Nevertheless he strolled beside Mingus into the thick of it, accepted whatever was meant to unfold in the park from within his own sleepwalker’s daze, which, perfected at the new school, covered even the appearance here of Robert Woolfolk, Bike Stealer. Yoker Prime. “Yo,” said Mingus Rude, lazily slapping at hands, humming swallowed syllables that might be names. “What’s goin’ on, Gus?” said Woolfolk. When he saw Dylan he flinched with his whole face, his sour-lemon features hiding nothing, yet didn’t alter the arrangement of his limbs an inch. The park was full of little white kids with bowl haircuts, maybe second or third graders from Packer or Saint Ann’s. They ran and screamed past the chessboard tables, dressed in Garanimals, arms loaded with plastic toys, G.I. Joes, water pistols, Wiffle balls. They might as well have been animated Disney bluebirds, twittering harmlessly around the head of the Wicked Witch as she coated an apple with poison. “Shit,” Robert Woolfolk said, and now he smiled. “You know this dude, G?” “This my man D-Lone,” Mingus said. “He’s cool. We go back, he’s my boy from around the block.” Robert looked at Dylan a long while before he spoke. “I know your boy,” he said. “I seen him from before you were even around, G.” He flicked his eyes at Dylan. “What up, Dylan man? Don’t say you don’t remember me, because I know you do.” “Sure,” Dylan said. “Oh, yeah?” Mingus said, carefully blasé. “So you down, right? You cool with my man Dylan.” Robert Woolfolk laughed. “What you need me to say, man? You can hang with your white boy, don’t mean shit to me.” At that, the moment was shattered in hilarity. The two other black teen-agers snorted, slapped each other five for the words “white boy,” as ever a transport to hear said aloud. “Ho, snap,” one said, shaking his head in wonderment as if he’d just seen a good stunt in a movie, a car flipped over or a body crumpled in a hail of blood-spurting bullet thwips. Dylan stood frozen in his stupid backpack and unpersuasive Keds in the innocent afternoon, his arms numb, blinking his eyes at Mingus. “We going down to bomb some trains or we sit here all day talking ’bout this and that?” Woolfolk said. “Let’s go,” Mingus said softly. “You bringing your homeboy here?” Suddenly a woman stepped into the thick of them. Out of nowhere she made herself present. It was as though she’d ruptured a force field Dylan hadn’t thought was permeable, one where their talk, no matter how many times the word “fuck” was included, was sealed in a glaze of distant car horns and bird tweets and the younger kids’ sweet yells. The woman was a mom, surely, one of the running kids had to be hers. She was maybe twenty-five or thirty, with blond hair, matching bluejean jacket and bell-bottoms, and granny glasses. Dylan could imagine her at one of his mother’s parties, waving a joint around, making some passionate digression about Altman or Szechuan, aggravating men accustomed to holding the floor. There were probably hundreds like her, false Rachels. “You O.K., kid?” She spoke to Dylan alone, there was no mistaking. The rest of them, Mingus included, were one thing in her eyes, Dylan another. Of all times, it would have to be now. Dylan had wished what felt like a million times for an adult to step up, for a teacher or a friend of his father’s to turn a corner on Dean Street and collide with one of his unnameable disasters, to break it open with a simple question like “You O.K., kid?” But not now. This woman sealed his status as white boy forever, precisely when Mingus had been working to change it. “Hey, kid? Something wrong?” Dylan had turned to her, helpless, gaping. There was no way to tell her how right and wrong she was at once, no way to make her evaporate. All the worse that she was beautiful, gleaming like the cover of one of Rachel’s Ms. magazines, which were still stacked up in the living room for Dylan’s eventual guilty perusal of illustrated features on bralessness. She shouldn’t have popped out of the other world, the Cobble Hill world of private-school kids, it was a misunderstanding. “They’re my friends,” Dylan said feebly. As it was out of his mouth it occurred to him he’d failed another test, another where the correct answer was “Fuck you lookin’ at?” That phrase, robustly applied, might have actually transported them all back in time to a moment before Robert Woolfolk had said the words “white boy.” Dylan might have then been invited to trail the others to a transit yard or wherever else they were going in order to bomb some trains, a richly terrifying prospect. Dylan longed to bomb some trains as fiercely as if he’d been hearing that phrase for years instead of just once, moments ago. No one else piped up to say, “Lady, mind your own fuckin’ business,” and Dylan saw that Robert Woolfolk and his two companions, Robert’s laugh track, were missing. Gone. Dylan had slipped a gear in staring perplexedly at the blond woman, lost a moment in dreaming, and in that moment Robert Woolfolk had shunted away, out of the blithe park that seemed intended to contain anything but him. As though making a silent confession of whatever it was the woman suspected was going on. Only Mingus remained, and he stood apart from the table where the others had sat, and from Dylan. “Do you want me to walk you home?” the woman asked. “Where do you live?” “Yo, Dylan man, I’ll check you later,” Mingus said. He wasn’t fearful, only uninterested in contending with the blond woman and anything she thought she knew. “Be cool,” Mingus said. He held out his hand, waiting for Dylan to tap it with his fingertips. “I’ll check you on the block, D.” With that, Mingus hunched his arms around his jacket pockets as though leaning into a strong wind and ambled into the sun-blobbed trees in the far corner of the park, toward the B.Q.E., the shipyards, wherever he was going where Dylan wasn’t going to be swept along now. That’s my best friend, Dylan wanted to tell the blond woman, who the longer he didn’t reply to her offer was more and more squinting at Dylan like she might have miscalculated, like he might be a thing spoiled by the company she’d found him in, a misfit, not a kid worth her rescue in the first place. And that’s what he wanted to be to her: spoiled, stained with blackness. Racist bitch. Where do I live? In his fantasy Dylan replied, I live in the housing projects on Wyckoff Street, that’s where. The Gowanus Houses. You know the ones, they’re always on fire. If you want to walk me home, lady, let’s go. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Benefit of the Doubt	The No. 64 bus stops at St. Peter’s, so it’s always crammed with pilgrims, or suckers, depending on your point of view—a happy hunting ground for pickpockets. Mallon was not a pilgrim, or by his own reckoning a sucker. His estranged wife was Swiss-Italian, he spoke the language fluently and came often to Rome on agency business, and was on the 64 that day, a thief’s hand in his pocket, only because he had an appointment near the Vatican and got caught in a flash summer downpour with no cabs in sight. The bus was packed with wet steamy people. They swayed into one another at the stops and turns, and it was during one of these mash-ups that Mallon felt the hand casing his rear pockets, both empty: his billfold, passport tucked inside, was buttoned into the breast pocket of his suit jacket. The touch was heavy, crude. Before he could turn and give the thief a warning look, the hand slid into his right front pocket. The blatancy of the move was astonishing—executed with no more finesse than if Mallon himself had done it, diving for some change. The hand went in, and damn if it didn’t stay in. This pocket was empty, too, but the hand seemed unwilling to accept that fact. Mallon became curious as to just how long this could go on. There was a lulling detachment in observing such ineptitude at work, a safe, dreamy amusement. The air was warm, swampy. The bus stopped to take on still more passengers, and the thief was pressed up against Mallon’s back. His hand continued to burrow around like a mouse nosing for crumbs. Then the bus lurched forward and the thief clawed at Mallon’s leg as he stumbled back. This shocked Mallon out of his trance. He braced himself, gathered his strength, and drove his right elbow back into a surprising pillowy softness. A hot blast of breath sprayed his neck and the hand vanished. Mallon turned to gloat and saw a man bent double, arms across his belly. He was making little mewing noises. The passengers around him, mostly Filipinos, by the look of them, watched him anxiously—a short round man all in black, black leather jacket creased across his back, baggy black pants, pointy black shoes as small as a child’s. His scalp showed through his thin dark hair, long strands dangling toward the floor. Nobody looked at Mallon, and already the bus was slowing down for his stop. But the pickpocket was still making those appalling sounds. Mallon leaned down and took his arm. He tried to raise him but the pickpocket would not be raised. The bus stopped. Let’s go, Mallon said in Italian. Let’s go. You’re all right. Come on. The pickpocket pulled away and kept fighting for breath in strangled gasps. Mallon rested a hand on the man’s back as the door of the bus hissed shut. O.K., he said. Let’s go. Come. Come. He took the pickpocket’s arm again and coaxed him toward the door, steadying him through the jerky weavings of the bus and then the abrupt shuddering stop. The door opened, and he helped the man down the steps, still bent and gasping, people giving way as if for a leper. The rain had stopped but the sky was dark and menacing. Mallon led the pickpocket under the awning of a shop and watched him retch dramatically, though without result. Mallon patted his shoulder. He could see the passersby keeping their eyes dead ahead, as he would have done, and saw how their faces stiffened with obscure shame. A poster of the Pietà loomed over Mallon in the shopwindow, above a display of pious plaster statuettes and gaudy rosaries. You don’t want to be seen looking at your watch at such a moment—a man apparently dying at your knees—but the big clock on the sidewalk was completely out of whack, like all the public clocks in Rome, so Mallon really had no choice. It was ten past four. He was ten minutes late, and had at least a five-minute walk back to Dottore Silvestri’s office. An important meeting. Yesterday’s discussion had gone badly, with Mallon pouncing on several misrepresentations in Il Dottore’s proposal. The development agency that Mallon worked for could make all the difference to Silvestri’s program, which envisioned several water-purification projects in East Africa. The distortions in the grant application were only to be expected of such a document, and in fact the board of Mallon’s agency had already decided to back the program. He was here to walk Dottore Silvestri through the terms of the award, not show off his talent for smelling horse shit. He’d given Il Dottore a taste of the lash yesterday, and probably left him thinking that the whole thing was headed down the drain. Mallon needed to correct that impression before it got back to his superiors in Geneva. He leaned down to the pickpocket. The heaving and gasping had stopped, but he was still making a show of his breathlessness. That’s better, Mallon said. Can you stand up? Try to stand up. Here, he said, and gripped the pickpocket’s arm and forced him upright until he saw his face for the first time. It was a round dark face with a small round mouth, lips as full and tender-looking as a girl’s. Despite the sheen of sweat on the puffy cheeks, the vanity of the pencil-line mustache, the sparse streaks of hair plastered across the damp forehead, Mallon had an impression of dignity; dignity, and dignity offended. As the pickpocket labored for breath, he gazed up at Mallon with his dark eyes. How could you? they asked. Mallon might have said, Because you tried to steal from me. But he was still conscious of the flush of joy he’d felt when his blow struck home—when he knew he’d hurt the man. It lingered in the faint tingling of his skin, an edgy sense of buoyancy, vitality. Where that joy came from he couldn’t say, but he knew that its roots were deeper than some clumsy failed larceny. Fat drops of rain began to patter on the awning. How are you? Mallon said. Can you walk? The pickpocket turned away as if insulted by the hypocrisy of Mallon’s concern. He leaned against the store window with both hands, and his head sank lower as his shoulders rose and fell. A gray-haired woman inside the store rapped on the glass and made a shooing motion. When the pickpocket ignored her, she rapped harder and kept rapping. He really was a little man: she glared down at him like a schoolmarm scolding a guilty child. I have to go, Mallon said. I’m sorry. He looked up at the sky. He would have liked to call Silvestri, to tell him that he was on his way, but his cell phone was back at the hotel and there was no public telephone in sight. I’m sorry, he said again, and stepped into the rain and walked quickly up the street. One of the ubiquitous Bangladeshi umbrella hustlers was working the corner, and Mallon had just shelled out seven euros when he heard a woman shouting. He didn’t want to look back but did. It was the woman from the shop, pushing and batting the pickpocket away from the window while he hunched and covered his head like a boxer trying to get through the last seconds of a round. Mallon slipped his billfold back into his jacket pocket and took the umbrella that the Bangladeshi had opened for him. He hesitated, then turned back. The pickpocket was out on the sidewalk now, in the rain. The woman stood just under the awning with her arms crossed over her chest. Excuse me, signora, Mallon said, coming up to them. This man isn’t well. He needs to rest a moment. I know these people, she said. We don’t want them here. The rain fell in sheets, ran down the pickpocket’s shiny scalp and face, down his leather jacket. Strings of water hung like a fringe from the hem of the jacket, dripping onto the sagging pants and dainty shoes. Here, Mallon said, and offered him the umbrella, but he only looked at Mallon with his hurt dark eyes and then lowered his head again. Mallon bumped him in the shoulder with the handle of the umbrella. Go on—take it! he said. And finally, with a beaten, unwilling look, the pickpocket did. He stood between Mallon and the signora, panting softly, holding the umbrella at a careless angle. He seemed oblivious of the water sliding down it onto his back; he seemed unable to move. So, too, the signora, steadfast in her icy pose. Mallon stepped under the awning, not so much to get out of the rain as to break free of this tableau. And that was when he saw a taxi round the corner with a light glowing on its roof. It was absurd to hope for an empty cab in rain like this, most likely the driver had simply forgotten to turn it off, but Mallon ran out waving his arm and the cab veered sharply to the curb, sending a comber of water over his shoes. He opened the door but couldn’t help looking back. The pickpocket had lowered the umbrella to the ground upside down and was leaning on the shaft, head low, neck bared to the sky. The signora kept her post. Wait, Mallon said to the driver. He went back and grabbed the pickpocket’s sleeve and pulled him to the cab. Get in, Mallon said, and took the umbrella and pushed him into the back seat. He leaned inside. O.K., where do you live? No Gypsies! the driver said. He was twisted around, glowering at the pickpocket. Gypsy? Look, he’s not well. I’ll pay, Mallon added. The driver shook his head. No Gypsies. He was a thick-shouldered guy with a long blue jaw, a hawkish beak, and heavy black eyebrows. His shaved head was blue with stubble. Get him out, he said. Mallon was thrown by his anger and the dissonant paleness of his eyes, and before he could reply the driver seized the pickpocket’s jacket and gave him a shake. Out, you! No, Mallon said. He closed the umbrella and slid onto the seat next to the pickpocket. He needs to get home, he said. I’ll come along. The driver stabbed a finger at Mallon. Out. Mallon looked at the driver’s nameplate: Michele Kadare. It’s the law, he said, bluffing. If you don’t take us, Signor Kadare, I’ll report you and you’ll lose your license. Believe me—I am quite serious. The driver fastened those pale eyes on Mallon. The windshield wipers rasped against the glass. The driver turned and put his hands on the steering wheel. His meaty fingers were white and hairless as chalk. He raised his eyes to the rearview mirror and he and Mallon exchanged stares. O.K., Mr. American, he said. You pay. The driver proceeded in silence across the river and worked his way through snarls of traffic. The pickpocket had given no address; in halting Italian he’d told the driver to follow Via Tiburtina toward Tivoli, and he would direct him from there. Then he’d leaned back into his corner with his eyes half closed, wheezing raggedly. He might have been hamming it up a bit, but Mallon was a big man and he’d hit the little pickpocket very hard. He saw no choice but to give him the benefit of the doubt. The rain slackened to drizzle and a sulfurous yellow light suffused the air. Mallon could feel his wet socks turning warm. Now and then the driver looked at him in the mirror. Kadare. Didn’t sound Italian. Mallon had once read a book by an Albanian writer named Kadare—maybe the driver was from Albania. That would make sense, somehow, just as it had made sense when the driver called the pickpocket a Gypsy. It explained the signora’s saying “these people,” and also Mallon’s jittery apprehension about the man, an inkling of some mysterious difference that had both put him on edge and intrigued him. But how did the driver and the signora know that the man was a Gypsy? It wasn’t as if he had a violin in his hand and a ring in his ear. Mallon could spot Gypsy women, with their kerchiefs and long bright skirts and their bold, flat-footed way of moving down a sidewalk, but the men eluded him. To his eye, the pickpocket might have been Portuguese, or Indian, or even one of those swart little Neapolitans. But the signora and the driver had seen it instantly, jolted by some Old World instinct, an alarm in the blood, of which only a tingle reached Mallon from what his forebears must have brought from Ireland and Poland and Russia. Generally he felt himself well rid of all that peasant malarkey—salt over the shoulder, garlic hanging from the lintel, the terror of black birds and spilled wine and others’ eyes—but sometimes he wondered if, in passing through the American filter, his blood had grown not clear but watery, if some essential agent of character, of self, had been bound up in these old instincts and had leached out along with them. The pickpocket’s wet leather jacket gave off a faint pissy smell. Mallon rolled the window down a few inches and was overcome by the freshness of the air. He closed his eyes, savoring the play of the breeze over his face. When he opened them again he caught the driver watching him in the mirror. Are you from Albania? Mallon asked. The driver tapped the meter. It was already up to eighteen euros, and they still hadn’t reached Via Tiburtina. Cash only, Mr. American. No magic American credit cards. How much farther? Mallon asked the pickpocket, who was holding both hands to his chest and rocking back and forth. He stared straight ahead and didn’t answer. Kadare. Could be Albanian. The book that Mallon had read concerned a boy waiting to be killed by a rival clan after shooting one of its members in revenge for the murder of his brother. The blood feud went back so far that no one could even remember its cause, but men continued to die for it and, more, to live for it. It gave them clear paths of duty and honor, and the power of martyrdom over their women; it imbued mean lives and deaths with a sense of tragic purpose. But what Mallon remembered best was the boy’s blooming alertness as the knowledge that he would soon be killed settled ever deeper. The boy quickened to the sun in his face and the smell of lamb’s fat dripping on coals, the glow of white boulders on the crags that loomed all around him. He wandered deserted roads and was never alone. Death beside him filled him with life until his cup ran over and he gave up his place to another murdering boy. Mallon had liked the book, but guiltily. He’d resisted his fascination with this violent backward culture, and disapproved of the idea that having death at your elbow gave meaning and beauty to life. He felt quite sure that most people would prefer safety from assault, not to mention decent shelter and food on the table, to exquisite intimations of mortality—if such sensations even existed. They were a fiction of religious and romantic pathology, that’s what Mallon thought, until he started having them himself. His daughter had begun to complain of headaches not long after her eleventh birthday, and was found to have a brain tumor. She’d survived it, and her tests had been negative for the three years since, but there’d been times during Lucy’s long course of radiation and chemotherapy when both Mallon and his wife had been sure that they were going to lose her. Chiara had grown bitter. She’d moved through the days in a cold rage, saying nothing, eating almost nothing, withdrawing into the guest room, where she’d slept since the month after Lucy’s diagnosis. She often said that she wished she’d never been born. Not Mallon. During his daughter’s sickness he’d become intensely conscious of life as something good in itself, his own as well as hers. This had taken the form of patience rather than cheer or even hope, and he’d known better than to offer it in answer to Chiara’s despair, but he could see that she somehow sensed it anyway and resented it, as she’d come to resent so much about him since Lucy got sick—his composure, his ability to keep working, his voice and touch, even his newfound pleasure in food, which he would not be frowned out of and indulged to the point that he got paunchy for the first time in his life. One leaden January afternoon, walking along a lakeside path after leaving the hospital, Mallon had looked up and watched the dark waves race toward shore and understood that his wife no longer loved him. Would she ever love him again? He supposed not, and time had proved him right. Chiara had tried to include him in her happiness when Lucy came home for good, but she just hadn’t liked having him around. Mallon thought that shame was at the root of her unease, for she had treated him badly, but he knew that Chiara wouldn’t recognize that; although she was smart and highly educated, a curator of rare manuscripts at the University of Geneva, personal analysis bored her, especially the analysis of her own emotions. She trusted in their essential validity and accepted their rule without question. He had prized this quality in her when she defied her family by throwing over an approved fiancé and marrying him; but now it made his case hopeless. Mallon and Chiara had been separated for more than a year. She and Lucy kept the apartment. He had a studio nearby, so that he and Lucy could visit back and forth as the spirit moved them. That was the idea. In practice, Chiara’s coldness to him became so painful that he rarely went there and had to wait for Lucy to come to him, which she did less often than he wished. He didn’t blame her. She was busy with school and friends and boys and her choir—with everything he’d prayed she would live to enjoy. As a project evaluator for his agency, Mallon had always had to fight for time at home. Lately he’d been less resolute. In the past two months he’d spent only nine days in Geneva, between stints in Zimbabwe and Uganda, where he’d lived in expensive hotels with broken air-conditioning and empty swimming pools and sandbagged machine-gun positions near the entrance, an obvious tap on the phone. The local project managers had worn him out with PowerPoint presentations and meetings with regional government officials. In their new Land Cruisers they’d driven him to sites where great things were just about to happen, and afterward laid on long speechy dinners, and sometimes a tribal spectacle of some kind. And nothing was going to change—not really. Those struggling, malnourished people he glimpsed through the tinted windows of speeding cars would still be in the same fix when the next evaluator came through, already under pressure to sign off on the projects so as not to mortify those who’d approved them in the first place. The people would be in the same fix; there would just be more of them. But at least they weren’t ridiculous. That condition was reserved for the project managers, with their Benson & Hedges cigarettes and Cartier lighters and gold Rolex watches and Armani cologne and the smooth European liquor they forced on Mallon with watchful, uncertain pride. And in his opinion they were ridiculous precisely because he and others like him, visitors from the greater ridiculousness, had made them so—constructing an entire class of anxious, alienated charlatans out of fat checks and aspirations so stupidly good, so uncomfortable with reality, that only deceit could satisfy them. For this, Mallon had left a good job at Nestlé, embarrassed by his success in a world where the pursuit of money and its blessings now seemed almost virtuously straightforward. They were on Via Tiburtina. The driver tapped the meter—forty-one euros—and gave Mallon a pale stare in the mirror, but said nothing. The traffic moved at a crawl except for the motorinos whining up the shoulder and daring the narrow gaps between lanes. The road was lined with gas stations and strip malls, discount furniture stores and car dealerships strung with fluttering pennants. Plastic bags and shards of Styrofoam scudded along the road, snagged on cyclone fences. If not for the passing glimpse of a Roman wall, remnant arches of an aqueduct in a distant field, Mallon could have thought himself back in Ohio. The pickpocket leaned forward and croaked at the driver. Where? the driver said. The pickpocket pointed to a supermarket on the other side of the road. The driver jerked the cab into the left-turn lane and waited for a break in the traffic. None came. He didn’t say a word, but Mallon could see the muscles working in his jaw and felt sure that he was nerving himself up to take a chance. Wait, he said, but just then an oncoming truck slowed down for them and the driver shot across the road and into the parking lot. The pickpocket directed him around to the rear of the store, where an unpaved road led out of the lot and past a long line of metal storage sheds and then a fenced compound filled with rusting machinery and great wooden spools of cable. The driver was going too fast for the road; the cab floated queasily between deep, jarring potholes. Farther, the pickpocket said. A little farther. And then the road gave out. They entered a field of mud. At the far end, several small trailers and campers had been drawn up beside an unfinished apartment block, windows empty of glass, balconies unrailed, water stains streaking the concrete walls. Indifferent to the rain, two boys were bouncing on a mattress in the middle of the field, watched by a bunch of other kids sitting on the shells of two wrecked cars. They jumped down and ran shouting toward the cab as it followed a crunching path through a waste of metal drums and tires and sodden newspapers and weirdly bright plastic bottles. A shaggy swaybacked pony had his muzzle buried in a cardboard box. He shied away as the parade went past, throwing a kick to cover his retreat. One of the boys jumped onto the hood of the cab and grinned at the driver: strong white teeth in a muddy face. The driver stared dead ahead. The pickpocket ignored them, too. He had the aloof, preoccupied air of a man in the back of a chauffeured limousine. Over there, he said, and gestured languidly toward the apartment block. The cab slowed to a stop, and the boy on the hood slid down and raised his fists like a champion and his friends laughed and bumped him with their hips. When the pickpocket got out of the cab, one of the boys called out to him—Miri!—and others joined in—Miri! Miri!—but he gave no sign of hearing. Mallon got out, too. He came around to say a last word of some kind, but the pickpocket turned away and took a few steps, then stopped and bent his head like a mourner. Wait a moment, Mallon said to the driver, and took the pickpocket’s elbow. No. Pay now. Forty-eight euros. Wait. Keep your meter on, you’ll be paid. The entranceway was covered with plastic sheeting. The pickpocket pushed it aside and Mallon half followed, half helped him into the lobby—a raw concrete cave littered with broken tiles that gleamed in the light of a kerosene lamp hanging from the ceiling. An old Gypsy woman was bent over a steaming metal tub set above a camp stove, rubbing a cloth against a washboard. She straightened up and looked at Mallon. Her dark face was webbed with deep wrinkles and folds from which her little eyes gleamed. One shoulder was higher than the other, as if caught in a shrug. In a gravelly voice she said something that Mallon didn’t understand. The pickpocket drooped and murmured pathetically. The old woman tossed the cloth into the tub and wiped her hands on the front of her dress, then led them across the lobby and down a dark hallway to a door over which a blanket had been hung. She held back the blanket and Mallon let go of the pickpocket’s elbow. O.K., you’re home, he said. The pickpocket ducked inside without a word. The old woman continued to hold the blanket. She jerked her head toward the doorway. No, I can’t, Mallon said. Avanti, she said impatiently, her teeth flashing gold. Mallon went in. Mallon went in amazed at his own docility and bilious with dread. Why? What did he expect, his gut knotting up as he passed the threshold? Certainly not this room—the muted light, the neatly made bed in the corner, the glossy yellow sofa and matching chair, the artificial palm tree. Not this room, and not the two beautiful children gaping at him. One was a girl of eight or nine, the other a boy a little older, both of them thin and dark and large-eyed. They stood on either side of the pickpocket, the girl hugging his arm and leaning against him. The children moved back as the old woman brushed past Mallon and took the pickpocket by the shoulders of his leather jacket and stripped it off with a series of rough jerks that made him stagger. Without the jacket he looked even smaller, smaller and rounder. Growling, she nudged him toward the bed and said something to the girl, who helped him lie down and then knelt and slipped off his little shoes. The old woman looked on, one hand at her hip. Then she turned to Mallon. Sit! she said. Before he could answer, she pointed at the yellow chair and waited until he obeyed. Then she told him, Stay! and left the room. The pickpocket lay on his back. He sighed deeply. The girl studied Mallon from the foot of the bed, the boy from beside the large window at the end of the room. The window was covered with plastic that diffused a pearly gray light. The girl had long thin arms with big bony elbows and wore a T-shirt with a panda on it. Mallon smiled at her. Your papa? he asked, nodding at the pickpocket. No answer, but she took a step toward Mallon. Uncle? The girl looked at the boy and laughed an outright adult sort of laugh and then pulled the collar of her T-shirt up over her mouth like a veil. The old woman called out from somewhere. The girl dropped her eyes demurely, joined her hands across her waist, and crossed the room in little mincing steps as if imitating a geisha with bound feet. The boy continued to stare. Mallon thought of stealing away, but the chair was deep and soft, and before he could collect the will to push himself out of it the girl returned and stood right in front of him with a bowl of unwrapped chocolates and a plastic bottle of Coca-Cola. Mallon shook his head no, but the girl kept offering these gifts, holding his eyes with hers and nodding all the while, so that to refuse seemed impossible. He took the Coke. Though it was warm and filled his mouth with foam he made a show of appreciation, tipping his head back and closing his eyes before setting the bottle down on the floor. The pickpocket groaned and rolled toward the wall, mumbling to himself. His voice rose as if in argument, then trailed off. The girl turned and looked at him, then at the boy, who drifted over to the other side of Mallon’s chair. The girl leaned back against Mallon’s knee, bouncing off him rhythmically, impersonally, as a child will do when caught by some distant thought or object of interest. Out of pure instinct he put his arm around her waist and pulled her onto his lap, then looked at the boy standing there alone and gathered him up, too. This felt entirely natural, apparently to them as well; light and noodly, they settled against him, heads on his chest. From above they looked identical. A pleasant, loamy smell rose up from their hair. The pickpocket rolled onto his back again and started to snore. Miri, the boy whispered, Miri Miri Miri, and began to imitate him, punctuating the nose music with wickedly accurate smacks and snorts. The girl was shaking. She put her hands over her mouth and exploded through her fingers. Mallon let his head fall back. He was tired and the chair was comfortable and the children were warm and familiar against him. He closed his eyes. The boy grew still and so did the girl. Mallon could feel them breathe, young shallow breaths, oddly synchronous. The idea came to him that maybe they were twins. Dully considering the mystery of twins, of twinness, he remembered for the first time in years a pair of boys he’d grown up with, Jerry and Terry—or Jerry and Larry—then he lost his thread and was content to let it go and be afloat, carried along by the pickpocket’s snores until he could almost hear them as his own. Later, he wondered how long this had lasted. Not long, he guessed, but when he felt the children leave him and grudgingly opened his eyes he was as fresh as if he’d slept for hours. The old woman was standing in front of the chair. That man out there wants you, she said. They were back on Via Tiburtina, still a good distance from central Rome and Mallon’s hotel, the fare up to eighty euros, when Mallon clapped his hand to his chest. The driver caught the motion and raised his eyes to the mirror. Mallon looked out the rain-glazed window, let nothing show. The moment passed. Mallon yawned ostentatiously, then under cover of shifting and stretching he patted himself down and confirmed that his billfold was gone. They drove on into lashing rain and the glare of headlights. It was just past six, but the sky was black and flickered with distant lightning. Mallon’s mouth was dry. He took a breath so deep that the driver glanced up again when he let it out. I have a problem. The driver’s eyes snapped back and forth between the road and the mirror. I’ve lost my wallet. What? My wallet is gone. You are saying you have no money? Not with me, no. I think I can get some at the hotel. If the clerk will advance it against my bill. The driver leaned forward, peering into the slant of rain. He flicked on the turn signal. I may not be able to get it tonight, but I can get it tomorrow for sure. In the morning. I just have to call Geneva. Mallon sounded to himself like a prattling fraud, but he added, I will pay you. You knew, the driver said. What? What did you say? No answer. The driver eased the cab onto the shoulder of the road and brought it to a stop. There was something terrible in his deliberateness, his silence, the rigid set of his neck. He sat there, hands on the wheel, looking straight ahead. Mr. American, he said, and made a noise between his teeth. Cars went by. The rain drummed on the roof. Mallon wanted to say something but was afraid to—as if the driver’s hatred were a gas that would blow at the first word. He felt he’d somehow lost the right to speak. Get out, the driver said. I’ll get the money to you, Signor Kadare, Mallon said. By the time he’d unfolded himself from the cab and closed the door his pant legs were already wet and clinging. Only as the driver pulled away did he remember the umbrella. He took his suit jacket off and draped it over his head, holding the collar forward like a bill. In this way he trudged along the shoulder for a while, then walked backward when the wind gusted into his face. What had the driver been getting at, saying, You knew? Knew what? And why had he felt himself caught out, laid bare at those words? The driver couldn’t have known what Mallon knew. But Mallon knew what Mallon knew. He’d come awake to it only at the driver’s accusation, but he knew all right and had known at the very moment back in that room, at rest but not asleep, the hand slipping across his chest, between jacket and shirt, then the discreet caress of the billfold sliding free and the lightness that followed, as if it had weighed pounds. That lightness—the strangest thing! Thunder rumbled somewhere. The blown rain plastered Mallon’s shirt against his back, glittered in the headlights of the cars rushing toward him. On a whim he stuck out his thumb. He hadn’t hitchhiked since college, and not much then. Maybe the tie would help. Or maybe it would look wrong on a hitchhiker, too calculated or cunning—a danger sign. And, of course, he was soaking wet, as anyone could see. Would he have offered himself a ride? He soon gave it up and turned around and saw the tail-lights of a car not far ahead, a man hurrying toward him with an open umbrella. It was the driver. He walked with a dipping limp on short legs. He came up to Mallon and held out the umbrella, which billowed and heaved in the wind. Too late for that, Mallon said. No, please. He held it uselessly over Mallon’s head. Come, please. Come. He escorted Mallon back to the cab and opened the door for him. Please, he said when Mallon hesitated. Mallon got in. I will pay you, he said, as the driver pulled back into traffic. No. No fare. Look! He touched the meter. It was off. That’s ridiculous. Of course I’ll pay you. No—a gift. But please no report, O.K.? Mallon saw the man’s eyes in the mirror. Ah, he said. No report? No report. But I’m still going to pay you. My gift to you. American, right? California? Mallon took the easy way out and said yes. Ohio just confused people; he hadn’t been there in years anyway. What car do you have? Chevrolet? This taxi, it belongs to my wife’s father. Michele. He’s sick. No money, you know? The driver chattered on: his father-in-law’s sickness, his sister’s sickness, a problem with the taxi license. As he talked he checked the mirror for Mallon’s response. He sounded like a project manager making excuses, wheedling for a passing grade. Mallon was bored and disappointed. So much for the fierce mountain clansman, the implacable Albanian avenger he’d imagined and feared. By the time they pulled up in front of the hotel the storm had passed and the doorman was shielding his eyes against a flare of evening light from the top of the street. The driver beat him to Mallon’s door and held it open, offering his hand as if to a woman. Mallon ignored it, emerged wet and blinking. O.K.? the driver said. Your umbrella, where is your umbrella? He leaned past Mallon into the cab. There! Friends, O.K.? No report, Mallon said. Mr. California! the driver said to the doorman. Hollywood, right? Of course, Mallon said. Hollywood. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Walk With Elizanne	Their class had graduated from Olinger High School in 1952, just before the name was regionalized out of existence. Though the year 2002 inevitably figured in yearbook predictions and jokes, nobody had really believed that this much future would ever become the present. They were seventeen and eighteen; 2002 was impossibly remote. Now it was here, here in the function room of Fiorvante’s, a restaurant in West Alton, half a mile from the stately county hospital where a lot of them had been born and now one of them lay critically ill. David Kern and his second wife, Andrea, long enough his wife to be no stranger to these five-year reunions, went to visit the sick class member, Mamie Kauffman, in the hospital room where she had lain for six weeks, her bones too riddled with cancer for her to walk. She had been living alone in a house she and a long-decamped husband had bought forty years ago, and where three children had been raised on a second-grade teacher’s salary. Get-well cards and art work from generations of her pupils filled the room’s sills and walls; Mamie was bubbly and hospitable, though she could not rise into even a sitting position. “What an outpouring of love this has brought on,” she told them. “I was feeling sorry for myself and, I guess you’d have to say, not enough loved, until this happened.” She described getting out of bed and feeling her hip snap, feeling herself tossed into a corner like a rag doll, and reaching for the telephone, which luckily was on the floor, with her cane. She had used a cane for some time, for what she had thought was rheumatoid arthritis. At first she meant to call her daughter, Dorothy, two towns away. “I was so mad at myself, I couldn’t think of Dot’s phone number, though I dial it every other day, and then I told myself, ‘Mamie, it’s two-thirty in the morning, you don’t want Dot’s number, what you want is nine-one-one. What you want is an ambulance.’ They came in ten minutes and couldn’t have been nicer. One of the paramedics it turned out had been a second grader of mine twenty years ago.” Andrea smiled and said, “That’s lovely.” In this overdecorated sickroom she looked young, vigorous, efficient, gracious; David was proud of her. She was a captive from another tribe, from a state other than Pennsylvania. Mamie tried to tell them about her suffering. “At times I’ve felt a little impatient with the Lord, but then I’m ashamed of myself. He doesn’t give you more than He gives you strength to bear.” In theistic Pennsylvania, David realized, people developed philosophies. Where he lived now, an unresisted atheism left people to suffer with the mute, recessive stoicism of animals. The more intelligent they were, the less they had to say in extremis. Mamie went on, “I’ve been rereading Shirley MacLaine, where she says that life is like a book, and your job is to figure out what chapter you’re in. If this is my last chapter, I have to read it that way, but you know I’ve had a lot of time to think lying here and—” In her broad, kind face, nearly as pale as her pillow, Mamie’s watery blue eyes faltered, becoming quick and dry. “I don’t think it is,” she finished bravely. Even flat on her back, she was a teacher, knowing more than her audience and out of lifelong habit wanting to impart the lesson. “I’m not afraid of death,” she told the visiting couple, smartly dressed in their reunion finery. “It’s locked into my heart that—that—” Yes, what? David thought, anxious to hear, though aware of the time ticking away. He came to this area so rarely now that he sometimes got lost on the new roads, even travelling only a mile. The reunion wouldn’t wait. “That I’ll be all right,” Mamie concluded. She sensed the anticlimax, the disappointment even, and made an exasperated circular motion of her hand, with its flesh-colored hospital bracelet and I.V. shunt. “That when it comes, I’ll still be there. Here. You know what I’m saying?” The visiting couple nodded in eager unison. “It’s the getting there,” Mamie admitted, “I don’t look forward to.” “No,” Andrea agreed, smiling her bright healthy smile. She was dressed in a gray wool suit whose broad lapels made her look more buxom than usual. David searched himself for something to say, but his tongue was numbed by memories of Mamie, from kindergarten on: the round-faced little girl being led to the asphalt playground by her round-faced mother; the eager student, knowing all the answers but never pushing them on others or on the teacher, never demanding attention but ready to shine when it fell on her; the cheerleader and class secretary, the pep girl. In their class plays and assembly programs, she always played the part of the impish little sister, while David, for some reason, played the father, with talcum powder in his hair. There was no need for talcum powder now; he had turned gray and then white early, like his own mother. Mamie was saying, “So I say to myself, ‘Mamie, you stop complaining, you’ve had a wonderful life, and three wonderful children, and it isn’t over yet.’ Dot offered to have me come live with them, but I wouldn’t do it to her, not in the shape I’m in. Jake offered, too, out there in Arizona. He thinks the dryness would be good for me, but what would I do looking out the window at the desert, unable to open a window because of the air-conditioning? The funny thing is—this will amuse you, David, you were always into irony—the rehab I’ll be moving to is the same one with my mother already there. She won’t be in my unit, but isn’t that ironical? I lived two blocks from her most of my life, and now I’ll be on the floor just under her.” The yearbook had not predicted that any of their parents would be alive in 2002. “My goodness—your mother must be ninety,” David said. “And then some. Who would have thought it, the way she smoked? And she wasn’t averse to a drink now and then, either.” “She was always very nice to me. Even without you being there, I could hang out in your house, waiting for my father to get done at school. We’d play gin rummy.” “She always said, ‘David will go places.’ ” In memory he saw her mother at the kitchen table like a tenement solitary glimpsed from a passing train—smoke unfurling from a Chesterfield in a glass ashtray, a fanned set of cards in her hand, a glass of some tinted liquid beside her other elbow. She had pasty, deeply dimpled elbows, and she and her daughter shared curly brown hair, and full, talkative lips, curved up at the corners. For all the bubbly welcome with which the two females of the house received David’s visits, there had been a melancholy nap to the furniture, a curtained gloom. It was a semi-detached house with no windows on one side and those on the other giving onto a neighbor’s house not six feet away. Mr. Kauffman, a small, almost rudely untalkative lathe operator, was slow to come home from work. Mamie’s sunny manner, her busy happiness in high school—the long shiny halls, the organized activities, the tides of young life regulated by bells—had the relief of escape attached to it. Like David’s father, who taught there, she felt at home in the broad, chaste communal setting. David’s fondness for her had never made it over the edge into the mildest kind of sexual exchange. “Speaking of going places,” David said. “Yes,” Mamie said quickly, recovering her briskness, “you must be off. You two have a wonderful time. David, be sure to say something nice to Betty Lou about the decorations and favors. She slaved to find all those things in the class colors.” Betty Lou, though laid-back and slangy, had indeed slaved; the effect was dazzling—swags of maroon and canary yellow, floral centerpieces to match at every table, the walls thronged with enlarged photographs taken fifty and more years ago of schoolchildren in pigtails and knickers, and then of teen-agers in saddle shoes and pleated skirts, corduroy shirts and leather jackets. The boys looked mildly menacing, with their greased pompadours and ducktails and flagrantly displayed cigarettes, a pack squaring their shirt pockets and an unfiltered singleton tucked behind one ear. The girls, too, with their thickly laid-on lipstick and induced blond streaks, had a touch of killer, of determination to get their share of the life to come. Now, although that life was mostly over, the function room was full of human noise, gleeful greetings and old-fashioned kidding: “God, ugly as ever! Who’s your friend, or is that a stomach?” Betty Lou, who without Mamie here was thrown into the chief managerial role, came and seized David above the elbow and turned him away from studying the photographs on the wall to face a well-dressed, well-padded woman with button-black eyes and hair to match, cut short and tastefully frosted. “Do you know who this is?” Betty Lou asked. Her tone was so aggressive his mind seized up. The mystery woman’s features had an owlish sharpness, and the decisively shaped, jet-black eyebrows gave her a frowning look, though she was smiling hopefully, trying silently to sing her identity to David across the decades. He was reminded of walking to elementary school, when Barbara Moyer and Linda Rickenbacker would steal his hat and his rubber-lined book satchel and nimbly keep these possessions out of his reach until tears stung his eyes and he ran away in a tantrum; then the girls would chase him, to give him back what they had grabbed. Now, again, he was being ganged up on by girls. The seconds stretched. Plump women of sixty-seven or eight have a family resemblance. He stammered—an old problem, long outgrown—when he began to mouth the name of a girl, Loretta Haldeman, who, he realized in mid-stammer, this could not be, for Loretta had attended five years ago, wearing steel-rimmed spectacles with one opaque lens; an eye had given out. This woman with her stern and shiny stare was being presented as a treat, a delicacy, a rarity. He tried to remember who always annoyed the class organizers by never coming, by not coming for fifty years, and thus through the powers of deduction rather than of recognition he named her: “Elizanne!” It was a name like none other, pronounced, they had learned as children, to begin with an “ay” sound, like the mysterious “et” in Chevrolet. It bespoke an ambitious, willful mother, to brand a daughter like this, in so conservative a county. Elizanne stepped forward to be kissed; David aimed at her cheek, though from the way she puckered she would have taken him on her mouth. “How good to have you here,” he said, a bit blankly. She had not been one of the showier girls in the class, though she had aged better than most. Her dress was teal silk and understated, expensive, and suburban. Her husband, that ultimate accessory, was tall and genial, with a trace of Southern accent, a man of business, retired or all but. The two of them were together embarked, David imagined, upon a well-earned sunset career of determined foreign travel, of grandchild-sitting and health-club attendance, of hardworking American leisure modelled on the handsome aging couples in commercials for Viagra and iron supplements. Elizanne, he sensed, had gone places; her face displayed, along with that demure quick smile he could remember—a smile that darted in and out—a good sense of herself, a firm social identity momentarily set aside, like a man’s jacket folded into an airplane’s overhead bin. Though David was happy enough to see her, he had little to say to her, and less than that to the tan and drawling husband, to whom they must all seem, David imagined, Pennsylvania Dutch hicks. It was only toward the end of the evening, with their spouses lost in the crowd, that she came up to him. There had been the bumbling monologue by the unofficial class clown, the e-mailed greeting from the unable-to-attend class president, the touching message from Mamie that Betty Lou read aloud, the microphone amplifying the catch in her throat. “We had the best of it,” Mamie had written. “No drugs, no school shootings, respect for our teachers, and faith in America.” Then the Frankhauser twins, now stooped and heavy of step, performed a soft-shoe routine last presented in senior assembly, and Betty Lou offered thanks to all the committee members, and Butch Fogel announced how to find tomorrow’s picnic, though the TV weathermen were predicting rain. The hired entertainment, a female keyboard player with a bassist, sang old songs freighted with nostalgic content for somebody, but not quite for them. Their songs were overlookable oddities tucked into the late forties and early fifties, just before Presley and doo-wop and rock made everything before them funky—the swing bands, the crooners, the iron-coiffed female vocalists, the novelty numbers and moony heart-wringers, to which one did a sluggish box step. Nobody danced. Even five years ago, one couple had dared, and others followed. Now, nobody. As the classmates began to shuffle toward the door and whatever fate the next five years would bring, Elizanne came up to David, resting a hand on his forearm and speaking with a firm, lilting urgency, almost as if she were speaking to herself. “David,” she said, in this running murmur, “there’s something I’ve been wanting for years to say to you. You were very important to me. You were the first boy who ever walked me home and—and kissed me.” Her eyes, a creamy brown color nearly consumed by her widened pupils in this dimmed function room, sought his, causing her lids with their starry wealth of black lashes to lift. Her eyebrows were released from their frown. Her face, so close and foreshortened, seemed arrived from a great distance. She might have had a drink or two—Fiorvante’s had its bar just outside the function room—but she was sober, and now so was he, shocked amid the reunion’s loud adult courtesies by this remembrance of their young selves, their true, fumbling selves. “I remember that walk,” he said. But did he? Elizanne laughed, a bit coarsely—a modern suburban woman’s knowing laugh. “It got me started, I must tell you, on a lot of, whatever. Kissing, let’s say.” He tried to ignore the experienced, sardonic woman she had become. The forgotten walk was coming back to him. The shy, leisurely passage, in dying light, through Olinger, and the standing close, still talking, at the door of her parents’ house, and then his lunge into the kiss, and her equally clumsy yet fervid acceptance of the kiss. He had loved her, for a season. When? Why had the season been so short? Had they kicked fallen leaves as they walked through town, along the Alton Pike with its trolley tracks, into the rectilinear streets of brick row houses, and then on to Elmdale, the section where the streets curved, and the houses stood alone on their lawns, the lawns weedless and the houses half-timbered and slate-roofed and expensive, to the house where Elizanne lived? Had it been spring, shot through with sudden green and yellow, or summer, when bugs swarmed and girls wore shorts, or winter, when your cheeks stung in the dark? He was stricken to have her imply, with a knowledgeable laugh, that she had gone on to kiss others—many others. She had added something he didn’t quite catch, in the noise of reunion farewells or in his growing deafness, about “what you all wanted”—a sadly cheap and standard sneer, he felt, about male sexuality, which in that place and era had been a massive, underpublicized impetus that most boys dealt with alone. But the sneer itself dated her, and took them back. “You were so,” he breathed, groping for the word, “dewy.” This he did remember, amid so much he had forgotten—her dewiness, a quiet, fuzzy moisture about her skin, her presence. “I’m glad,” he added, going into dry adult mode, “it was a successful initiation.” Darkly her eyes held his for a second. She realized that he couldn’t express what was there to express, and gave his forearm a squeeze and removed her hand. “I just wanted you to know,” she said. This was goodbye, for fifty more years. Wait, he thought, but instead said, quite inanely, “Thank you, Elizanne. What a sweet thing to remember. Hey, you look great. Unlike a lot of us.” That night, twisting with the reunion’s excitement next to Andrea in bed at the Alton Marriott, and for days following, he tried to recapture that walk which had ended in a kiss. Elizanne’s house and neighborhood had been more expensive than his, and that had intimidated him. She was not for him. Before too long he got his first real girlfriend, from the class below theirs, who let him hold her breasts and partly undress her, slick as a fish in the parked car. How old would they have been, he and Elizanne? Sixteen, perhaps fifteen. Had it been after a football game, or a school dance? He had not really been very social, nor, after they moved to the country, when he was fourteen, was he free to drift around Olinger as he pleased, though he continued at Olinger High, riding back and forth with his father. She was in the marching band, he remembered. He could see her in her uniform, her black hair bundled up under her cap and her girl’s body encased, somehow excitingly, in the gold-striped maroon pants and jacket. The baton twirlers in their high white boots and short flippy skirts were followed by a maroon unisex mass, and Elizanne was in that phalanx. What did she play? He thought clarinet, but this might have been a slender shadow of her coloring; unlike the other class brunettes, with their highlighted brown waves, she had truly black hair, with lashes and eyebrows to match. The skin of her face had been luminously white in contrast. A fuzz on her upper lip made two little smudges. Remembering the dark fuzz, most noticeable in the downward view, gave him another piece of memory: dancing with her, holding her close while shuffling, her corsage and strapless taffeta bodice and the taffeta small of her back with its little ridges and his feet and armpits and shoulder blades in the rented summer tux all melting into one continuum of sweat while the streamers overhead drooped and the mirror ball flung its reflections frictionlessly across the floor and the band, its muted trombones sobbing, finished its rendition of “Stardust” or “Goodnight Irene.” His and Elizanne’s cheeks felt pasted together and yet when the music stopped he didn’t want to let go; he continued, pantingly, to drink her in, her foreshortened demure face with its smudged upper lip and dewy expanse of décolletage, the white edges of her strapless bra outlining her gentle bosom. How often had they danced like that? Why hadn’t more come of it? As long as he could remember, the female sex had been sending out combative, formidable scouts in his direction, mothers and grandmothers and teachers, and Barbara and Linda stealing his cap on the way to school, and fellow classroom goody-goodies like Mamie, and here the surface of femininity, that towering mystery in whose presence his life must be lived, yielded to a slight pressure. Without a word, a word that he could remember, Elizanne had submitted to his inept attentions, and indicated a demure curiosity in what he might do for her. The walk: for weeks after the reunion his mind could not let go of the walk she reminded him they had taken. In the distorting lens of old age it loomed as one of the most momentous acts of his life. The geography of Olinger had been woven into him, into the muscles that pushed his bicycle and pulled his sled. His parents took walks on Sunday afternoons, and he had tagged behind them until his legs balked. His grandfather had worked on the borough crew that had put in some of the new streets on the north side of the main thoroughfare, the Pike. The town was older south of the Pike, where David’s house sat, in a ragged neighborhood of mixed architectural styles and vacant lots, some of them planted in corn. He preferred the blocks north of the Pike, where identical brick semi-detached houses, with square-pillared porches and terraced front lawns, had been put up during the twenties. Friends like Mamie lived in these orderly cozy blocks, which had grocery stores or hobby shops or an ice-cream parlor or a barber shop tucked into the front rooms of homes. He loved the houses’ tightness, their uniformity, which seemed a pledge of order and shared intention missing from his own patchy neighborhood. Beyond this section, where a harness-racing track had once tied up sixty acres, contractors in the years before the war positioned handsome limestone and clinker-brick single houses on new streets curving up the side of Shale Hill. David’s walk with Elizanne must have taken him from the high school or its grounds on the Pike through the blocks of semi-detached houses, which above their porches held picture windows where seasonal decorations—orange-paper pumpkins and black-paper bats for Halloween, Christmas tinsel, Easter baskets—announced the residents’ fealty to the Christian calendar. The trees along the streets changed from horse chestnuts in the old section where he lived to dense lines of Norway maples on the solidly built-up rectilinear streets to drooping, feathery elms and blotchy-barked sycamores, locally called buttonwoods, on the streets that curved. These trees were looser, airier; there was more space and light in the section where Elizanne lived, as if you were ascending a hill, as indeed you were, but a gently sloping hill of money, of airy privilege. And yet she had let him kiss her, there by her thick-panelled front door, with its two-tone chime doorbell, and had remembered that kiss for more than fifty years, and spoke of it as her admission ticket to the wonderland of sex. If Mamie was right and we live forever, David thought, he could imagine no better way to spend eternity than taking that walk with Elizanne over and over, until what they said, how they touched, whether or not he dared hold her hand in his, and each hair of the fine black down on her forearms all came as clear as letters deep-cut in marble. There would be time to ask her all the questions he had been too slow-witted to ask at their fiftieth. Was this her first husband, or the last of a series? Had she had affairs, in that suburb of her choosing? Had there been a lot of necking, as he had heard there was, on the band bus back from the football games? Was it the bus where she went on with her kissing, the groping that comes with kissing, the flush and hard breathing that comes with groping? Whose girlfriend had she been, in her junior and senior years? He dimly remembered her being linked with Lennie Lesher, the track star, the five-minute miler with sunken acne-scarred cheeks and tight waves of hair soaked in Vitalis. How could she have betrayed him, David, that way? Or with those faceless members of the band? Why had they, David and she, drifted apart after walking through Olinger into the region of more light? Or had it been night, after a dance or a basketball game, her white face with its strong eyebrows and quick smile a nocturnal blur? For days he could not let her afterimage go, but in time he would, he knew. He could not write or call her, even if Mamie or Betty Lou provided him with her address and number, for there were spouses, accumulated realities, limits. At the time, obviously, there had been limits in their situation, deficiencies. He had had little to offer her but his future of going places, and that was vague and distant. The questions he was burning to ask would receive banal answers. It was an adolescent flirtation that had come to nothing. “Well, here we are.” The streetlights had just come on. “So soon!” he exclaimed. “You have a n-nifty-looking house.” “Mother’s never liked the kitchen. She says it’s gloomy, all those dark-stained cabinets. She wants us to move to West Alton.” “Oh, no! Don’t move, Elizanne.” “I don’t want to, heaven knows. She thinks they have better schools in West Alton. A better class of student.” “My m-mother made us move to the country and I hate it.” “You can’t stay in Olinger forever, David.” “Why not? Some do.” “That won’t be you.” Her gaze clung to his in her seriousness; her eyebrows slightly frowned. He expected her to turn away and go into her house, but she didn’t. He explained, “I ought to get back to the school, my p-poor father’s p-p-probably looking for me. It must be past five.” The light died earlier each day: it was October. The leaves were turning. “Tell me honestly,” she said, as if to herself, rapidly. “Did I talk too much? Just now, walking.” “No, you didn’t. You didn’t at all.” “That’s what I do, when I let myself relax with someone. I chatter. I go on too much.” “You didn’t. It was like you were singing to me.” Her face had not exactly come closer to his, but its not turning and moving away made it feel closer. Cautiously he bent his face into hers, a little sideways, and kissed her. Elizanne’s lips took the fit snugly, warmly; she pressed slightly into the kiss, from underneath, looking for something in it. David felt caught up in a stream flowing counter to the current of everyday events, and began to run out of breath. He broke the contact and backed off. They stared at one another, her black eyes button-bright in the sodium streetlight, amid the restless faint shadows of the half-brown big sycamore leaves. Then he kissed her again, entering that warm still point around which the universe wheeled, with its load of stars not yet visible, the sky still blue above the streetlights. This time she backed off. A car went by, maybe containing somebody they knew, a spy or gossip. “And there was even more,” she said, giggling to show that she was poking fun at herself now, “that I wanted to say.” “You will,” he promised, breathlessly. His cheeks were hot, as if after gym class. He was worried, with an anxious stir of his stomach, about his father waiting for him. He felt as he had when, his one weekend at the Jersey Shore the past summer, a wave carrying his surfing body was breaking too early and about to throw him forward, down into the hard sand. “I want to hear it all,” he told Elizanne. “We have t-tons of time.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Harvey’s Dream	Janet turns from the sink and, boom, all at once her husband of nearly thirty years is sitting at the kitchen table in a white T-shirt and a pair of Big Dog boxers, watching her. More and more often she has found this weekday commodore of Wall Street in just this place and dressed in just this fashion come Saturday morning: slumped at the shoulder and blank in the eye, a white scruff showing on his cheeks, man-tits sagging out the front of his T, hair standing up in back like Alfalfa of the Little Rascals grown old and stupid. Janet and her friend Hannah have frightened each other lately (like little girls telling ghost stories during a sleepover) by swapping Alzheimer’s tales: who can no longer recognize his wife, who can no longer remember the names of her children. But she doesn’t really believe these silent Saturday-morning appearances have anything to do with early-onset Alzheimer’s; on any given weekday morning Harvey Stevens is ready and raring to go by six-forty-five, a man of sixty who looks fifty (well, fifty-four) in either of his best suits, and who can still cut a trade, buy on margin, or sell short with the best of them. No, she thinks, this is merely practicing to be old, and she hates it. She’s afraid that when he retires it will be this way every morning, at least until she gives him a glass of orange juice and asks him (with an increasing impatience she won’t be able to help) if he wants cereal or just toast. She’s afraid she’ll turn from whatever she’s doing and see him sitting there in a bar of far too brilliant morning sun, Harvey in the morning, Harvey in his T-shirt and his boxer shorts, legs spread apart so she can view the meagre bulge of his basket (should she care to) and see the yellow calluses on his great toes, which always make her think of Wallace Stevens having on about the Emperor of Ice Cream. Sitting there silent and dopily contemplative instead of ready and raring, psyching himself up for the day. God, she hopes she’s wrong. It makes life seem so thin, so stupid somehow. She can’t help wondering if this is what they fought through for, raised and married off their three girls for, got past his inevitable middle-aged affair for, worked for and sometimes (let’s face it) grabbed for. If this is where you come out of the deep dark woods, Janet thinks, this . . . this parking lot . . . then why does anyone do it? But the answer is easy. Because you didn’t know. You discarded most of the lies along the way but held on to the one that said life mattered. You kept a scrapbook devoted to the girls, and in it they were still young and still interesting in their possibilities: Trisha, the eldest, wearing a top hat and waving a tinfoil wand over Tim, the cocker spaniel; Jenna, frozen in mid-jump halfway through the lawn sprinkler, her taste for dope, credit cards, and older men still far over the horizon; Stephanie, the youngest, at the county spelling bee, where “cantaloupe” turned out to be her Waterloo. Somewhere in most of these pictures (usually in the background) were Janet and the man she had married, always smiling, as if it were against the law to do anything else. Then one day you made the mistake of looking over your shoulder and discovered that the girls were grown and that the man you had struggled to stay married to was sitting with his legs apart, his fish-white legs, staring into a bar of sun, and by God maybe he looked fifty-four in either of his best suits, but sitting there at the kitchen table like that he looked seventy. Hell, seventy-five. He looked like what the goons on “The Sopranos” called a mope. She turns back to the sink and sneezes delicately, once, twice, a third time. “How are they this morning?” he asks, meaning her sinuses, meaning her allergies. The answer is not very good, but, like a surprising number of bad things, her summer allergies have their sunny side. She no longer has to sleep with him and fight for her share of the covers in the middle of the night; no longer has to listen to the occasional muffled fart as Harvey soldiers ever deeper into sleep. Most nights during the summer she gets six, even seven hours, and that’s more than enough. When fall comes and he moves back in from the guest room, it will drop to four, and much of that will be troubled. One year, she knows, he won’t move back in. And although she doesn’t tell him so—it would hurt his feelings, and she still doesn’t like to hurt his feelings; this is what now passes for love between them, at least going from her direction to his—she will be glad. She sighs and reaches into the pot of water in the sink. Gropes around in it. “Not so bad,” she says. And then, just when she is thinking (and not for the first time) about how this life holds no more surprises, no unplumbed marital depths, he says in a strangely casual voice, “It’s a good thing you weren’t sleeping with me last night, Jax. I had a bad dream. I actually screamed myself awake.” She’s startled. How long has it been since he called her Jax instead of Janet or Jan? The last is a nickname she secretly hates. It makes her think of that syrupy-sweet actress on “Lassie” when she was a kid, the little boy (Timmy, his name was Timmy) always fell down a well or got bitten by a snake or trapped under a rock, and what kind of parents put a kid’s life in the hands of a fucking collie? She turns to him again, forgetting the pot with the last egg still in it, the water now long enough off the boil to be lukewarm. He had a bad dream? Harvey? She tries to remember when Harvey has mentioned having had any kind of dream and has no luck. All that comes is a vague memory of their courtship days, Harvey saying something like “I dream of you,” she herself young enough to think it sweet instead of lame. “You what?” “Screamed myself awake,” he says. “Did you not hear me?” “No.” Still looking at him. Wondering if he’s kidding her. If it’s some kind of bizarre morning joke. But Harvey is not a joking man. His idea of humor is telling anecdotes at dinner about his Army days. She has heard all of them at least a hundred times. “I was screaming words, but I wasn’t really able to say them. It was like . . . I don’t know . . . I couldn’t close my mouth around them. I sounded like I’d had a stroke. And my voice was lower. Not like my own voice at all.” He pauses. “I heard myself, and made myself stop. But I was shaking all over, and I had to turn on the light for a little while. I tried to pee, and I couldn’t. These days it seems like I can always pee—a little, anyway—but not this morning at two-forty-seven.” He pauses, sitting there in his bar of sun. She can see dust motes dancing in it. They seem to give him a halo. “What was your dream?” she asks, and here is an odd thing: for the first time in maybe five years, since they stayed up until midnight discussing whether to hold the Motorola stock or sell it (they wound up selling), she’s interested in something he has to say. “I don’t know if I want to tell you,” he says, sounding uncharacteristically shy. He turns, picks up the pepper mill, and begins to toss it from hand to hand. “They say if you tell your dreams they won’t come true,” she says to him, and here is Odd Thing No. 2: all at once Harvey looks there, in a way he hasn’t looked to her in years. Even his shadow on the wall above the toaster oven looks somehow more there. She thinks, He looks as though he matters, and why should that be? Why, when I was just thinking that life is thin, should it seem thick? This is a summer morning in late June. We are in Connecticut. When June comes we are always in Connecticut. Soon one of us will get the newspaper, which will be divided into three parts, like Gaul. “Do they say so?” He considers the idea, eyebrows raised (she needs to pluck them again, they are getting that wild look, and he never knows), tossing the pepper mill from hand to hand. She would like to tell him to stop doing that, it’s making her nervous (like the exclamatory blackness of his shadow on the wall, like her very beating heart, which has suddenly begun to accelerate its rhythm for no reason at all), but she doesn’t want to distract him from whatever is going on in his Saturday-morning head. And then he puts the pepper mill down anyway, which should be all right but somehow isn’t, because it has its own shadow—it runs out long on the table like the shadow of an oversized chess piece, even the toast crumbs lying there have shadows, and she has no idea why that should frighten her but it does. She thinks of the Cheshire Cat telling Alice, “We’re all mad here,” and suddenly she doesn’t want to hear Harvey’s stupid dream, the one from which he awakened himself screaming and sounding like a man who has had a stroke. Suddenly she doesn’t want life to be anything but thin. Thin is O.K., thin is good, just look at the actresses in the movies if you doubt it. Nothing must announce itself, she thinks feverishly. Yes, feverishly; it’s as if she’s having a hot flash, although she could have sworn all that nonsense ended two or three years ago. Nothing must announce itself, it’s Saturday morning and nothing must announce itself. She opens her mouth to tell him she got it backward, what they really say is that if you tell your dreams they will come true, but it’s too late, he’s already talking, and it occurs to her that this is her punishment for dismissing life as thin. Life is actually like a Jethro Tull song, thick as a brick, how could she have ever thought otherwise? “I dreamed it was morning and I came down to the kitchen,” he says. “Saturday morning, just like this, only you weren’t up yet.” “I’m always up before you on Saturday morning,” she says. “I know, but this was a dream,” he says patiently, and she can see the white hairs on the insides of his thighs, where the muscles are wasted and starved. Once he played tennis, but those days are done. She thinks, with a viciousness that is entirely unlike her, You will have a heart attack, white man, that’s what will finish you, and maybe they’ll discuss giving you an obit in the Times, but if a B-movie actress from the fifties died that day, or a semi-famous ballerina from the forties, you won’t even get that. “But it was like this,” he says. “I mean, the sun was shining in.” He raises a hand and stirs the dust motes into lively life around his head and she wants to scream at him not to do that, not to disturb the universe like that. “I could see my shadow on the floor and it never looked so bright or so thick.” He pauses, then smiles, and she sees how cracked his lips are. “ ‘Bright’ ’s a funny word to use for a shadow, isn’t it? ‘Thick,’ too.” “Harvey—” “I crossed to the window,” he says, “and I looked out, and I saw there was a dent in the side of the Friedmans’ Volvo, and I knew—somehow—that Frank had been out drinking and that the dent happened coming home.” She suddenly feels that she will faint. She saw the dent in the side of Frank Friedman’s Volvo herself, when she went to the door to see if the newspaper had come (it hadn’t), and she thought the same thing, that Frank had been out at the Gourd and scraped something in the parking lot. How does the other guy look? had been her exact thought. The idea that Harvey has also seen this comes to her, that he is goofing with her for some strange reason of his own. Certainly it’s possible; the guest room where he sleeps on summer nights has an angle on the street. Only Harvey isn’t that sort of man. “Goofing” is not Harvey Stevens’s “thing.” There is sweat on her cheeks and brow and neck, she can feel it, and her heart is beating faster than ever. There really is a sense of something looming, and why should this be happening now? Now, when the world is quiet, when prospects are tranquil? If I asked for this, I’m sorry, she thinks . . . or maybe she’s actually praying. Take it back, please take it back. “I went to the refrigerator,” Harvey is saying, “and I looked inside, and I saw a plate of devilled eggs with a piece of Saran wrap over them. I was delighted—I wanted lunch at seven in the morning!” He laughs. Janet—Jax that was—looks down into the pot sitting in the sink. At the one hard-boiled egg left in it. The others have been shelled and neatly sliced in two, the yolks scooped out. They are in a bowl beside the drying rack. Beside the bowl is the jar of mayonnaise. She has been planning to serve the devilled eggs for lunch, along with a green salad. “I don’t want to hear the rest,” she says, but in a voice so low she can barely hear it herself. Once she was in the Dramatics Club and now she can’t even project across the kitchen. The muscles in her chest feel all loose, the way Harvey’s legs would if he tried to play tennis. “I thought I would have just one,” Harvey says, “and then I thought, No, if I do that she’ll yell at me. And then the phone rang. I dashed for it because I didn’t want it to wake you up, and here comes the scary part. Do you want to hear the scary part?” No, she thinks from her place by the sink. I don’t want to hear the scary part. But at the same time she does want to hear the scary part, everyone wants to hear the scary part, we’re all mad here, and her mother really did say that if you told your dreams they wouldn’t come true, which meant you were supposed to tell the nightmares and save the good ones for yourself, hide them like a tooth under the pillow. They have three girls. One of them lives just down the road, Jenna the gay divorcée, same name as one of the Bush twins, and doesn’t Jenna hate that; these days she insists that people call her Jen. Three girls, which meant a lot of teeth under a lot of pillows, a lot of worries about strangers in cars offering rides and candy, which had meant a lot of precautions, and oh how she hopes her mother was right, that telling a bad dream is like putting a stake in a vampire’s heart. “I picked up the phone,” Harvey says, “and it was Trisha.” Trisha is their oldest daughter, who idolized Houdini and Blackstone before discovering boys. “She only said one word at first, just ‘Dad,’ but I knew it was Trisha. You know how you always know?” Yes. She knows how you always know. How you always know your own, from the very first word, at least until they grow up and become someone else’s. “I said, ‘Hi, Trish, why you calling so early, hon? Your mom’s still in the sack.’ And at first there was no answer. I thought we’d been cut off, and then I heard these whispering whimpering sounds. Not words but half-words. Like she was trying to talk but hardly anything could come out because she wasn’t able to muster any strength or get her breath. And that was when I started being afraid.” Well, then, he’s pretty slow, isn’t he? Because Janet—who was Jax at Sarah Lawrence, Jax in the Dramatics Club, Jax the truly excellent French-kisser, Jax who smoked Gitanes and affected enjoyment of tequila shooters—Janet has been scared for quite some time now, was scared even before Harvey mentioned the dent in the side of Frank Friedman’s Volvo. And thinking of that makes her think of the phone conversation she had with her friend Hannah not even a week ago, the one that eventually progressed to Alzheimer’s ghost stories. Hannah in the city, Janet curled up on the window seat in the living room and looking out at their one-acre share of Westport, at all the beautiful growing things that make her sneeze and water at the eyes, and before the conversation turned to Alzheimer’s they had discussed first Lucy Friedman and then Frank, and which one of them had said it? Which one of them had said, “If he doesn’t do something about his drinking and driving, he’s eventually going to kill somebody”? “And then Trish said what sounded like ‘lees’ or ‘least,’ but in the dream I knew she was . . . eliding? . . . is that the word? Eliding the first syllable, and that what she was really saying was ‘police.’ I asked her what about the police, what was she trying to say about the police, and I sat down. Right there.” He points to the chair in what they call the telephone nook. “There was some more silence, then a few more of those half-words, those whispered half-words. She was making me so mad doing that, I thought, Drama queen, same as it ever was, but then she said, ‘number,’ just as clear as a bell. And I knew—the way I knew she was trying to say ‘police’—that she was trying to tell me the police had called her because they didn’t have our number.” Janet nods numbly. They decided to unlist their number two years ago because reporters kept calling Harvey about the Enron mess. Usually at dinnertime. Not because he’d had anything to do with Enron per se but because those big energy companies were sort of a specialty of his. He’d even served on a Presidential commission a few years earlier, when Clinton had been the big kahuna and the world had been (in her humble opinion, at least) a slightly better, slightly safer place. And while there were a lot of things about Harvey she no longer liked, one thing she knew perfectly well was that he had more integrity in his little finger than all those Enron sleazebags put together. She might sometimes be bored by integrity, but she knows what it is. But don’t the police have a way of getting unlisted numbers? Well, maybe not if they’re in a hurry to find something out or tell somebody something. Plus, dreams don’t have to be logical, do they? Dreams are poems from the subconscious. And now, because she can no longer bear to stand still, she goes to the kitchen door and looks out into the bright June day, looks out at Sewing Lane, which is their little version of what she supposes is the American dream. How quiet this morning lies, with a trillion drops of dew still sparkling on the grass! And still her heart hammers in her chest and the sweat rolls down her face and she wants to tell him he must stop, he must not tell this dream, this terrible dream. She must remind him that Jenna lives right down the road—Jen, that is, Jen who works at the Video Stop in the village and spends all too many weekend nights drinking at the Gourd with the likes of Frank Friedman, who is old enough to be her father. Which is undoubtedly part of the attraction. “All these whispered little half-words,” Harvey is saying, “and she would not speak up. Then I heard ‘killed,’ and I knew that one of the girls was dead. I just knew it. Not Trisha, because it was Trisha on the phone, but either Jenna or Stephanie. And I was so scared. I actually sat there wondering which one I wanted it to be, like Sophie’s fucking Choice. I started to shout at her. ‘Tell me which one! Tell me which one! For God’s sake, Trish, tell me which one!’ Only then the real world started to bleed through . . . always assuming there is such a thing. . . .” Harvey utters a little laugh, and in the bright morning light Janet sees there is a red stain in the middle of the dent on the side of Frank Friedman’s Volvo, and in the middle of the stain is a dark smutch that might be dirt or even hair. She can see Frank pulling up crooked to the curb at two in the morning, too drunk even to try the driveway, let alone the garage—strait is the gate, and all that. She can see him stumbling to the house with his head down, breathing hard through his nose. Viva ze bool. “By then I knew I was in bed, but I could hear this low voice that didn’t sound like mine at all, it sounded like some stranger’s voice, and it couldn’t put corners on any of the words it was saying. ‘Ell-ee itch-un, ell-ee itch-un,’ that’s what it sounded like. ‘Ell-ee itch-un, Ish!’ ” Tell me which one. Tell me which one, Trish. Harvey falls silent, thinking. Considering. The dust motes dance around his face. The sun makes his T-shirt almost too dazzling to look at; it is a T-shirt from a laundry-detergent ad. “I lay there waiting for you to run in and see what was wrong,” he finally says. “I lay there all over goosebumps, and trembling, telling myself it was just a dream, the way you do, of course, but also thinking how real it was. How marvellous, in a horrible way.” He stops again, thinking how to say what comes next, unaware that his wife is no longer listening to him. Jax-that-was is now employing all her mind, all her considerable powers of thought, to make herself believe that what she is seeing is not blood but just the Volvo’s undercoating where the paint has been scraped away. “Undercoating” is a word her subconscious has been more than eager to cast up. “It’s amazing, isn’t it, how deep imagination goes?” he says finally. “A dream like that is how a poet—one of the really great ones—must see his poem. Every detail so clear and so bright.” He falls silent and the kitchen belongs to the sun and the dancing motes; outside, the world is on hold. Janet looks at the Volvo across the street; it seems to pulse in her eyes, thick as a brick. When the phone rings, she would scream if she could draw breath, cover her ears if she could lift her hands. She hears Harvey get up and cross to the nook as it rings again, and then a third time. It is a wrong number, she thinks. It has to be, because if you tell your dreams they don’t come true. Harvey says, “Hello?” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Gogol	In a hospital waiting room in Cambridge, Ashoke Ganguli hunches over a Boston Globe from a month ago, abandoned on a neighboring chair. He reads about the riots that took place during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago and about Dr. Benjamin Spock, the baby doctor, being sentenced to two years in jail for threatening to counsel draft evaders. The Favre Leuba strapped to his wrist is running six minutes ahead of the large gray-faced clock on the wall. It is four-thirty in the morning. He desperately needs a cup of tea, not having managed to make one before leaving the house. But the machine in the corridor dispenses only coffee, tepid at best, in paper cups. He takes off his thick-rimmed glasses, fitted by a Calcutta optometrist, and polishes the lenses with the cotton handkerchief he always keeps in his pocket, “A” for Ashoke embroidered by his mother in light-blue thread. His black hair, normally combed back neatly from his forehead, is dishevelled, sections of it on end. He stands and begins pacing, as the other expectant fathers do. The men wait with cigars, flowers, address books, bottles of champagne. They smoke cigarettes, ashing onto the floor. Ashoke, a doctoral candidate in electrical engineering at M.I.T., is indifferent to such indulgences. He neither smokes nor drinks alcohol of any kind. Ashima is the one who keeps all their addresses, in a small notebook she carries in her purse. It has never occurred to him to buy his wife flowers. He returns to the Globe, still pacing as he reads. A slight limp causes Ashoke’s right foot to drag almost imperceptibly with each step. Since childhood he has had the habit and the ability to read while walking, holding a book in one hand on his way to school, from room to room in his parents’ three-story house in Alipore, and up and down the red clay stairs. Nothing roused him. Nothing distracted him. Nothing caused him to stumble. As a teen-ager he had gone through all of Dickens. He read newer authors as well, Graham Greene and Somerset Maugham, all purchased from his favorite stall on College Street with pujo money. But most of all he loved the Russians. His paternal grandfather, a former professor of European literature at Calcutta University, had read from them aloud in English translation when Ashoke was a boy. Each day at teatime, as his brothers and sisters played kabadi and cricket outside, Ashoke would go to his grandfather’s room, and for an hour his grandfather would read supine on the bed, his ankles crossed and the book propped open on his chest, Ashoke curled at his side. For that hour Ashoke was deaf and blind to the world around him. He did not hear his brothers and sisters laughing on the rooftop, or see the tiny, dusty, cluttered room in which his grandfather read. “Read all the Russians, and then reread them,” his grandfather had said. “They will never fail you.” When Ashoke’s English was good enough, he began to read the books himself. It was while walking on some of the world’s noisiest, busiest streets, on Chowringhee and Gariahat Road, that he had read pages of “The Brothers Karamazov,” and “Anna Karenina,” and “Fathers and Sons.” Ashoke’s mother was always convinced that her eldest son would be hit by a bus or a tram, his nose deep into “War and Peace”—that he would be reading a book the moment he died. One day, in the earliest hours of October 20, 1961, this nearly happened. Ashoke was twenty-two, a student at Bengal Engineering College. He was travelling on the No. 83 Up Howrah-Ranchi Express to visit his grandparents in Jamshedpur, where they had moved upon his grandfather’s retirement from the university. Ashoke had never spent the Durga pujo holidays away from his family. But his grandfather had recently gone blind, and he had requested Ashoke’s company specifically, to read him The Statesman in the morning, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy in the afternoon. Ashoke accepted the invitation eagerly. He carried two suitcases, the first one containing clothes and gifts, the second empty. For it would be on this visit, his grandfather had said, that the books in his glass-fronted case, collected over a lifetime and preserved under lock and key, would be given to Ashoke. He had already received a few in recent years, given to him on birthdays and other special occasions. But now that the day had come to inherit the rest, the day his grandfather could no longer read the books himself, Ashoke was saddened, and as he placed the empty suitcase under his seat he was disconcerted by its weightlessness, regretful of the circumstances that would cause it, upon his return, to be full. He carried a single volume for the journey, a hardbound collection of short stories by Nikolai Gogol, which his grandfather had given him when he’d graduated from class twelve. On the title page, beneath his grandfather’s signature, Ashoke had written his own. Because of his passion for this particular book, the spine had recently split, threatening to divide the pages into two sections. His favorite story in the book was the last, “The Overcoat,” and that was the one Ashoke had begun to reread as the train, late in the evening, pulled out of Howrah Station with a prolonged and deafening shriek, away from his parents and his six younger brothers and sisters, all of whom had come to see him off, and had huddled until the last moment by the window, waving to him from the long, dusky platform. Outside the view turned quickly black, the scattered lights of Howrah giving way to nothing at all. He had a second-class sleeper, in the seventh bogie behind the air-conditioned coach. Because of the season, the train was especially crowded, filled with families on holiday. Small children were wearing their best clothing, the girls with brightly colored ribbons in their hair. He shared his compartment with three others. There was a middle-aged Bihari couple who, he gathered from overhearing their conversation, had just married off their eldest daughter, and a friendly, potbellied, middle-aged Bengali businessman wearing a suit and tie, by the name of Ghosh. Ghosh told Ashoke that he had recently spent two years in England on a job voucher, but that he had come back home because his wife was inconsolably miserable abroad. Ghosh spoke reverently of England. The sparkling, empty streets, the polished black cars, the rows of gleaming white houses, he said, were like a dream. Trains departed and arrived according to schedule, Ghosh said. No one spat on the sidewalks. It was in a British hospital that his son had been born. “Seen much of this world?” Ghosh asked Ashoke, untying his shoes and settling himself cross-legged on the berth. He pulled a packet of Dunhill cigarettes from his jacket pocket, offering them around the compartment before lighting one for himself. “You are still young. Free,” he said, spreading his hands apart for emphasis. “Do yourself a favor. Before it’s too late, without thinking too much about it first, pack a pillow and a blanket and see as much of the world as you can. You will not regret it. One day it will be too late.” “My grandfather always says that’s what books are for,” Ashoke said, using the opportunity to open the volume in his hands. “To travel without moving an inch.” “To each his own,” Ghosh said. He tipped his head politely to one side, letting the last of the cigarette drop from his fingertips. He reached into a bag by his feet and took out his diary, turning to the twentieth of October. The page was blank, and on it, with a fountain pen whose cap he ceremoniously unscrewed, he wrote his name and address. He ripped out the page and handed it to Ashoke. “If you ever change your mind and need contacts, let me know. I live in Tollygunge, just behind the tram depot.” “Thank you,” Ashoke said, folding up the information and putting it at the back of his book. “How about a game of cards?” Ghosh suggested. He pulled out a well-worn deck from his suit pocket, with an image of Big Ben on the back. But Ashoke politely declined. One by one the passengers brushed their teeth in the vestibule, changed into their pajamas, fastened the curtain around their compartments, and went to sleep. Ghosh offered to take the upper berth, climbing barefoot up the ladder, his suit carefully folded away, so that Ashoke had the window to himself. The Bihari couple shared some sweets from a box and drank water from the same cup without either of them putting their lips to the rim, then settled into their berths as well, switching off the lights and turning their heads to the wall. Only Ashoke continued to read, still seated, still dressed. A single small bulb glowed dimly over his head. From time to time he looked through the open window at the inky Bengal night, at the vague shapes of palm trees and the simplest of homes. Carefully he turned the soft yellow pages of his book, a few delicately tunnelled by worms. The steam engine puffed reassuringly, powerfully. Deep in his chest he felt the rough jostle of the wheels. Sparks from the smokestack passed by his window. A fine layer of sticky soot dotted one side of his face, his eyelid, his arm, his neck; his grandmother would insist that he scrub himself with a cake of Margo soap as soon as he arrived. Immersed in the sartorial plight of Akaky Akakyevich, lost in the wide, snow-white, windy avenues of St. Petersburg, unaware that one day he was to dwell in a snowy place himself, Ashoke was still reading at two-thirty in the morning, one of the few passengers on the train who was awake, when the locomotive engine and seven bogies derailed from the broad-gauge line. The sound was like a bomb exploding. The first four bogies capsized into a depression alongside the track. The fifth and sixth, containing the first-class and air-conditioned passengers, telescoped into each other, killing the passengers in their sleep. The seventh, where Ashoke was sitting, capsized as well, flung by the speed of the crash farther into the field. The accident occurred two hundred and nine kilometres from Calcutta, between the Ghatshila and Dhalbumgarh stations. More than an hour passed before the rescuers arrived, bearing lanterns and shovels and axes to pry bodies from the cars. Ashoke can still remember their shouts, asking if anyone was alive. He remembers trying to shout back, unsuccessfully, his mouth emitting nothing but the faintest rasp. He remembers the sound of people half-dead around him, moaning and tapping on the walls of the train, whispering hoarsely for help, words that only those who were also trapped and injured could possibly hear. Blood drenched his chest and the left arm of his shirt. He had been thrust partway out the window. He remembers being unable to see anything at all; for the first hours he thought that perhaps, like his grandfather, he’d gone blind. He remembers the acrid odor of flames, the buzzing of flies, children crying, the taste of dust and blood on his tongue. They were nowhere, somewhere in a field. Milling about them were villagers, police inspectors, a few doctors. He remembers believing that he was dying, that perhaps he was already dead. He could not feel the lower half of his body, and so was unaware that the mangled limbs of Ghosh were draped over his legs. Eventually he saw the cold, unfriendly blue of earliest morning, the moon and a few stars still lingering in the sky. The pages of his book, which had been tossed from his hand, fluttered in two sections a few feet away from the train. The glare from a search lantern briefly caught the pages, momentarily distracting one of the rescuers. “Nothing here,” Ashoke heard someone say. “Let’s keep going.” But the lantern’s light lingered, just long enough for Ashoke to raise his hand, a gesture that he believed would consume the small fragment of life left in him. He was still clutching a single page of “The Overcoat,” crumpled tightly in his fist, and when he raised his hand the wad of paper dropped from his fingers. “Wait!” he heard a voice cry out. “The fellow by that book. I saw him move.” He was pulled from the wreckage, placed on a stretcher, transported on another train to a hospital in Tatanagar. He had broken his pelvis, his right femur, and three of his ribs on the right side. For the next year of his life he lay flat on his back, ordered to keep as still as possible while the bones of his body healed. There was a risk that his right leg might be permanently paralyzed. He was transferred to Calcutta Medical College, where two screws were put into his hips. By December he had returned to his parents’ house in Alipore, carried through the courtyard and up the red clay stairs like a corpse, hoisted on the shoulders of his four brothers. Three times a day he was spoon-fed. He urinated and defecated into a tin pan. Doctors and visitors came and went. Even his blind grandfather from Jamshedpur paid a visit. His family had saved the newspaper accounts. In a photograph, Ashoke observed the train smashed to shards, piled jaggedly against the sky, security guards sitting on the unclaimed belongings. He learned that fishplates and bolts had been found several feet from the main track, giving rise to the suspicion, never subsequently confirmed, of sabotage. “holiday-makers’ tryst with death,” the Times of India had written. During the day he was groggy from painkillers. At night he dreamed either that he was still trapped inside the train or, worse, that the accident had never happened, that he was walking down a street, taking a bath, sitting cross-legged on the floor and eating a plate of food. And then he would wake up, coated in sweat, tears streaming down his face, convinced that he would never live to do such things again. Eventually, in an attempt to avoid his nightmares, he began to read, late at night, which was when his motionless body felt most restless, his mind agile and clear. Yet he refused to read the Russians his grandfather had brought to his bedside, or any novels, for that matter. Those books, set in countries he had never seen, reminded him only of his confinement. Instead he read his engineering books, trying his best to keep up with his courses, solving equations by flashlight. In those silent hours, he thought often of Ghosh. “Pack a pillow and a blanket,” he heard Ghosh say. He remembered the address Ghosh had written, somewhere behind the tram depot in Tollygunge. Now it was the home of a widow, a fatherless son. Each day, to bolster his spirits, his family reminded him of the future, the day he would stand unassisted, walk across the room. It was for this, each day, that his father and mother prayed. But, as the months passed, Ashoke began to envision another sort of future. He imagined not only walking, but walking away, as far as he could, from the place where he was born and where he had nearly died. The following year, walking with a cane, he returned to college and graduated, and without telling his parents he applied to continue his engineering studies abroad. Only after he’d been accepted with a full fellowship, a newly issued passport in hand, did he inform them of his plans. “But we already nearly lost you once,” his bewildered father had protested. His siblings had pleaded and wept. His mother, speechless, had refused food for three days. In spite of all that, he’d gone. Seven years later, there are still certain images that wipe him flat. They lurk around a corner as he rushes through the engineering department at M.I.T. They hover by his shoulder as he leans over a plate of rice at dinnertime, or nestles against Ashima’s limbs at night. At every turning point in his life—at his wedding, in Calcutta, when he stood behind Ashima, encircling her waist and peering over her shoulder as they poured puffed rice into a fire, or during his first hours in America, seeing a small gray city caked with snow—he has tried but failed to push these images away: the twisted, battered, capsized bogies of the train, his body twisted below it, the terrible crunching sound he had heard but not comprehended, his bones crushed as fine as flour. It is not the memory of pain that haunts him; he has no memory of that. It is the memory of waiting before he was rescued, and the persistent fear, rising up in his throat, that he might not have been rescued at all. At times he still presses his ribs to make sure they are solid. He presses them now, in the hospital, shaking his head in relief, disbelief. Although it is Ashima who carries the child, he, too, feels heavy, with the thought of life, of his life and the life about to come from it. He was raised without running water, nearly killed at twenty-two. He was born twice in India, and then a third time, in America. Three lives by thirty. For this he thanks his parents, and their parents, and the parents of their parents. He does not thank God; he openly reveres Marx and quietly refuses religion. Instead of thanking God he thanks Gogol, the Russian writer who had saved his life, when the nurse enters the waiting room. The baby, a boy, is born at half past five in the morning. He measures twenty inches long, weighs seven pounds nine ounces. When Ashoke arrives, the nurse is taking Ashima’s blood pressure, and Ashima is reclining against a pile of pillows, the child wrapped like an oblong white parcel in her arms. Beside the bed is a bassinet, labelled with a card that says “Baby Boy Ganguli.” “He’s here,” she says quietly, looking up at Ashoke with a weak smile. Her skin is faintly yellow, the color missing from her lips. She has circles beneath her eyes, and her hair, spilling from its braid, looks as though it had not been combed for days. Her voice is hoarse, as if she’d caught a cold. He pulls up a chair by the side of the bed and the nurse helps to transfer the child from mother’s to father’s arms. In the process, the child pierces the silence in the room with a short-lived cry. His parents react with mutual alarm, but the nurse laughs approvingly. “You see,” she says to Ashima, “he’s already getting to know you.” At first Ashoke is more perplexed than moved, by the pointiness of the head, the puffiness of the lids, the small white spots on the cheeks, the fleshy upper lip that droops prominently over the lower one. The skin is paler than either Ashima’s or his own, translucent enough to show slim green veins at the temples. The scalp is covered by a mass of wispy black hair. He attempts to count the eyelashes. He feels gently through the flannel for the hands and feet. “It’s all there,” Ashima says, watching her husband. “I already checked.” “What are the eyes like? Why won’t he open them? Has he opened them?” She nods. “What can he see? Can he see us?” “I think so. But not very clearly. And not in full color. Not yet.” They sit in silence, the three of them as still as stones. “How are you feeling? Was it all right?” he asks Ashima after a while. But there is no answer, and when Ashoke lifts his gaze from his son’s face he sees that she, too, is sleeping. When he looks back to the child, the eyes are open, staring up at him, unblinking, as dark as the hair on its head. The face is transformed; Ashoke has never seen a more perfect thing. He imagines himself as a dark, grainy, blurry presence. As a father to his son. Being rescued from that shattered train had been the first miracle of his life. But here, now, reposing in his arms, weighing next to nothing but changing everything, is the second. Because neither set of grandparents has a working telephone, the couple’s only link to home is by telegram, which Ashoke has sent to both sides in Calcutta: “With your blessings, boy and mother fine.” As for a name, they have decided to let Ashima’s grandmother, who is past eighty now, who has named each of her six other great-grandchildren in the world, do the honors. Ashima’s grandmother has mailed the letter herself, walking with her cane to the post office, her first trip out of the house in a decade. The letter contains one name for a girl, one for a boy. Ashima’s grandmother has revealed them to no one. Though the letter was sent a month ago, in July, it has yet to arrive. Ashima and Ashoke are not terribly concerned. After all, they both know, an infant doesn’t really need a name. He needs to be fed and blessed, to be given some gold and silver, to be patted on the back after feedings and held carefully behind the neck. Names can wait. In India parents take their time. It wasn’t unusual for years to pass before the right name, the best possible name, was determined. Ashima and Ashoke can both cite examples of cousins who were not officially named until they were registered, at six or seven, in school. Besides, there are always pet names to tide one over: a practice of Bengali nomenclature grants, to every single person, two names. In Bengali the word for “pet name” is daknam, meaning literally the name by which one is called, by friends, family, and other intimates, at home and in other private, unguarded moments. Pet names are a persistent remnant of childhood, a reminder that life is not always so serious, so formal, so complicated. They are a reminder, too, that one is not all things to all people. Every pet name is paired with a “good name,” a bhalonam, for identification in the outside world. Consequently, good names appear on envelopes, on diplomas, in telephone directories, and in all other public places. Good names tend to represent dignified and enlightened qualities. Ashima means “she who is limitless, without borders.” Ashoke, the name of an emperor, means “he who transcends grief.” Pet names have no such aspirations. They are never recorded officially, only uttered and remembered. Three days come and go. Ashima is shown by the nursing staff how to change diapers and how to clean the umbilical stub. She is given hot saltwater baths to soothe her bruises and stitches. She is given a list of pediatricians, and countless brochures on breast-feeding and bonding and immunizing, and samples of baby shampoos and Q-Tips and creams. The fourth day there is good news and bad news. The good news is that Ashima and the baby are to be discharged the following morning. The bad news is that they are told by Mr. Wilcox, compiler of hospital birth certificates, that they must choose a name for their son. For they learn that in America a baby cannot be released from the hospital without a birth certificate. And that a birth certificate needs a name. “But, sir,” Ashima protests, “we can’t possibly name him ourselves.” Mr. Wilcox, slight, bald, unamused, glances at the couple, both visibly distressed, then glances at the nameless child. “I see,” he says. “The reason being?” “We are waiting for a letter,” Ashoke says, explaining the situation in detail. “I see,” Mr. Wilcox says again. “That is unfortunate. I’m afraid your only alternative is to have the certificate read ‘Baby Boy Ganguli.’ You will, of course, be required to amend the permanent record when a name is decided upon.” Ashima looks at Ashoke expectantly. “Is that what we should do?” “I don’t recommend it,” Mr. Wilcox says. “You will have to appear before a judge, pay a fee. The red tape is endless.” “Oh dear,” Ashoke says. Mr. Wilcox nods, and silence ensues. “Don’t you have any backups?” he asks. “Something in reserve, in case you didn’t like what your grandmother has chosen.” Ashima and Ashoke shake their heads. It has never occurred to either of them to question Ashima’s grandmother’s selection, to disregard an elder’s wishes in such a way. “You can always name him after yourself, or one of your ancestors,” Mr. Wilcox suggests, admitting that he is actually Howard Wilcox III. “It’s a fine tradition. The kings of France and England did it,” he adds. But this isn’t possible. This tradition doesn’t exist for Bengalis, naming a son after father or grandfather, a daughter after mother or grandmother. This sign of respect in America and Europe, this symbol of heritage and lineage, would be ridiculed in India. Within Bengali families, individual names are sacred, inviolable. They are not meant to be inherited or shared. “Then what about naming him after another person? Someone you greatly admire?” Mr. Wilcox says, his eyebrows raised hopefully. He sighs. “Think about it. I’ll be back in a few hours,” he tells them, exiting the room. The door shuts, which is when, with a slight quiver of recognition, as if he’d known it all along, the perfect pet name for his son occurs to Ashoke. “Hello, Gogol,” he whispers, leaning over his son’s haughty face, his tightly bundled body. “Gogol,” he repeats, satisfied. The baby turns his head with an expression of extreme consternation and yawns. Ashima approves, aware that the name stands not only for her son’s life but for her husband’s. She’d first heard the story of the accident soon after their marriage was arranged, when Ashoke was still a stranger to her. But the thought of it now makes her blood go cold. There are nights when she has been woken by her husband’s muffled screams, times they have ridden the subway together and the rhythm of the wheels on the tracks makes him suddenly pensive, aloof. She has never read any Gogol herself, but she is willing to place him on a shelf in her mind, along with Tennyson and Wordsworth. When Mr. Wilcox returns with his typewriter, Ashoke spells out the name. Thus Gogol Ganguli is registered in the hospital’s files. A first photograph, somewhat overexposed, is taken that broiling-hot, late summer’s day: Gogol, an indistinct blanketed mass, reposing in his weary mother’s arms. She stands on the steps of the hospital, staring at the camera, her eyes squinting into the sun. Her husband looks on from one side, his wife’s suitcase in his hand, smiling with his head lowered. “Gogol enters the world,” his father will eventually write on the back in Bengali letters. Letters arrive from Ashima’s parents, from Ashoke’s parents, from aunts and uncles and cousins and friends, from everyone, it seems, but Ashima’s grandmother. The letters are filled with every possible blessing and good wish, composed in an alphabet they have seen all around them for most of their lives, on billboards and newspapers and awnings, but which they see now only in these precious, pale-blue missives. In November, when Gogol is three months old, he develops a mild ear infection. When Ashima and Ashoke see their son’s pet name typed on the label of a prescription for antibiotics, when they see it at the top of his immunization record, it doesn’t look right; pet names aren’t meant to be made public in this way. But there is still no letter from Ashima’s grandmother, and they are forced to conclude that it is lost in the mail. The very next day a letter arrives in Cambridge. The letter is dated three weeks ago, and from it they learn that Ashima’s grandmother has had a stroke, that her right side is permanently paralyzed, her mind dim. She can no longer chew, barely swallows, remembers and recognizes little of her eighty-odd years. “She is with us still, but to be honest we have already lost her,” Ashima’s father has written. “Prepare yourself, Ashima. Perhaps you may not see her again.” It is their first piece of bad news from home. Ashoke barely knows Ashima’s grandmother, only vaguely recalls touching her feet at his wedding, but Ashima is inconsolable for days. She sits at home with Gogol as the leaves turn brown and drop from the trees, as the days begin to grow quickly, mercilessly dark. Unlike Ashima’s parents, and her other relatives, her grandmother, her dida, had not admonished Ashima not to eat beef or wear skirts or cut off her hair or forget her family the moment she landed in Boston. Her grandmother had not been fearful of such signs of betrayal; she was the only person to predict, rightly, that Ashima would never change. A few days before leaving Calcutta, Ashima had stood, her head lowered, under her late grandfather’s portrait, asking him to bless her journey. Then she bent down to touch the dust of her dida’s feet to her head. “Dida, I’m coming,” Ashima had said. For this was the phrase Bengalis always used in place of goodbye. “Enjoy it,” her grandmother had bellowed in her thundering voice, helping Ashima to straighten. With trembling hands, her grandmother had pressed her thumbs to the tears streaming down Ashima’s face, wiping them away. “Do what I will never do. It will all be for the best. Remember that. Now go.” By 1971, the Gangulis have moved to a university town outside Boston, where Ashoke has been hired as an assistant professor of electrical engineering at the university. In exchange for teaching five classes, he earns sixteen thousand dollars a year. He is given his own office, with his name etched onto a strip of black plastic by the door. The job is everything Ashoke has ever dreamed of. He had always hoped to teach in a university rather than work for a corporation. What a thrill, he thinks, to stand lecturing before a roomful of American students. What a sense of accomplishment it gives him to see his name printed under “Faculty” in the university directory. From his fourth-floor office he has a sweeping view of the quadrangle, surrounded by vine-covered brick buildings. On Fridays, after he has taught his last class, he visits the library, to read international newspapers on long wooden poles. He reads about American planes bombing Vietcong supply routes in Cambodia, Naxalites being murdered on the streets of Calcutta, India and Pakistan going to war. At times he wanders up to the library’s sun-filled, unpopulated top floor, where all the literature is shelved. He browses in the aisles, gravitating most often toward his beloved Russians, where he is particularly comforted, each time, by his son’s name stamped in golden letters on the spines of a row of red and green and blue hardbound books. Ashoke and Ashima purchase a shingled two-story colonial in a recently built development, a house previously occupied by no one, erected on a quarter acre of land. This is the small patch of America to which they lay claim. Gogol accompanies his parents to banks, sits waiting as they sign the endless papers. Ashoke and Ashima are amazed, when moving by U-Haul to the new house, to discover how much they possess; each of them had come to America with a single suitcase, a few weeks’ worth of clothes. The walls of the new house are painted, the driveway sealed with pitch, the shingles and sundeck weatherproofed and stained. Ashoke takes photographs of every room, Gogol standing somewhere in the frame, to send to relatives in India. He is a sturdily built child, with full cheeks but already pensive features. When he poses for the camera he has to be coaxed into a smile. In the beginning, in the evenings, his family goes for drives, exploring their new environs bit by bit: the neglected dirt lanes, the shaded back roads. The back seat of the car is sheathed with plastic, the ashtrays on the doors still sealed. Sometimes they drive out of the town altogether, to one of the beaches along the North Shore. Even in summer, they never go to swim or to turn brown beneath the sun. Instead they go dressed in their ordinary clothes. By the time they arrive, the ticket collector’s booth is empty, the crowds gone; there are only a handful of cars in the parking lot. Together, as the Gangulis drive, they anticipate the moment the thin blue line of ocean will come into view. On the beach Gogol collects rocks, digs tunnels in the sand. He and his father wander barefoot, their pant legs rolled halfway up their calves. He watches his father raise a kite within minutes into the wind, so high that Gogol must tip his head back in order to see, a rippling speck against the sky. The August that Gogol turns five, Ashima discovers she is pregnant again. In the mornings she forces herself to eat a slice of toast, only because Ashoke makes it for her and watches her while she chews it in bed. Her head constantly spins. She spends her days lying down, a pink plastic wastepaper basket by her side, the shades drawn, her mouth and teeth coated with the taste of metal. Sometimes Gogol lies beside her in his parents’ bedroom, reading a picture book, or coloring with crayons. “You’re going to be an older brother,” she tells him one day. “There’ll be someone to call you Dada. Won’t that be exciting?” In the evenings, Gogol and his father eat together, alone, a week’s worth of chicken curry and rice, which his father cooks in two battered Dutch ovens every Sunday. As the food reheats, his father tells Gogol to shut the bedroom door because his mother cannot tolerate the smell. It is odd to see his father presiding in the kitchen, standing in his mother’s place at the stove. When they sit down at the table, the sound of his parents’ conversation is missing. Because his mother tends to vomit the moment she finds herself in a moving car, she is unable to accompany Ashoke to take Gogol, in September of 1973, to his first day of kindergarten at the town’s public elementary school. By the time Gogol starts, it is already the second week of the school year. For the past week, Gogol has been in bed, just like his mother, listless, without appetite, claiming to have a stomach ache, even vomiting one day into his mother’s pink wastepaper basket. He doesn’t want to go to kindergarten. He doesn’t want to wear the new clothes his mother has bought him from Sears, hanging on a knob of his dresser, or carry his Charlie Brown lunchbox, or board the yellow school bus that stops at the end of Pemberton Road. There is a reason Gogol doesn’t want to go to kindergarten. His parents have told him that at school, instead of being called Gogol, he will be called by a new name, a good name, which his parents have finally decided on, just in time for him to begin his formal education. The name, Nikhil, is artfully connected to the old. Not only is it a perfectly respectable Bengali good name, meaning “he who is entire, encompassing all,” but it also bears a satisfying resemblance to Nikolai, the first name of the Russian Gogol’s. Ashoke thought of it recently, staring mindlessly at the Gogol spines in the library, and he rushed back to the house to ask Ashima her opinion. He pointed out that it was relatively easy to pronounce, though there was the danger that Americans, obsessed with abbreviation, would truncate it to Nick. She told him she liked it well enough, though later, alone, she’d wept, thinking of her grandmother, who had died earlier in the year, and of the letter, forever hovering somewhere between India and America. But Gogol can’t understand why he has to answer to anything else. “Why do I have to have a new name?” he asks his parents, tears springing to his eyes. It would be one thing if his parents were to call him Nikhil, too. But they tell him that the new name will be used only by the teachers and children at school. He is afraid to be Nikhil, someone he doesn’t know. Who doesn’t know him. His parents tell him that they each have two names, too, as do all their Bengali friends in America, and all their relatives in Calcutta. It’s a part of growing up, they tell him, part of being a Bengali. They write it for him on a sheet of paper, ask him to copy it over ten times. “Don’t worry,” his father says. “To me and your mother, you will never be anyone but Gogol.” At school, Ashoke and Gogol are greeted by the secretary, who asks Ashoke to fill out a registration form. He provides a copy of Gogol’s birth certificate and immunization records, which are put in a folder along with the registration. “This way,” the secretary says, leading them to the principal’s office. Candace Lapidus, the name on the door says. Mrs. Lapidus assures Ashoke that missing the first week of kindergarten is not a problem, that things have yet to settle down. Mrs. Lapidus is a tall, slender woman with short white-blond hair. She wears frosted blue eye shadow and a lemon-yellow suit. She shakes Ashoke’s hand and tells him that there are two other Indian children at the school, Jayadev Modi, in the third grade, and Rekha Saxena, in fifth. Perhaps the Gangulis know them? Ashoke tells Mrs. Lapidus that they do not. She looks at the registration form and smiles kindly at the boy, who is clutching his father’s hand. Gogol is dressed in powder-blue pants, red-and-white canvas sneakers, a striped turtleneck top. “Welcome to elementary school, Nikhil. I am your principal, Mrs. Lapidus.” Gogol looks down at his sneakers. The way the principal pronounces his new name is different from the way his parents say it, the second part of it longer, sounding like “heel.” She bends down so that her face is level with his, and extends a hand to his shoulder. “Can you tell me how old you are, Nikhil?” When the question is repeated and there is still no response, Mrs. Lapidus asks, “Mr. Ganguli, does Nikhil follow English?” “Of course he follows,” Ashoke says. “My son is perfectly bilingual.” In order to prove that Gogol knows English, Ashoke does something he has never done before, and addresses his son in careful, accented English. “Go on, Gogol,” he says, patting him on the head. “Tell Mrs. Lapidus how old you are.” “What was that?” Mrs. Lapidus says. “I beg your pardon, Madam?” “That name you called him. Something with a ‘G.’ ” “Oh that, that is what we call him at home only. But his good name should be—is”—he nods his head firmly— “Nikhil.” Mrs. Lapidus frowns. “I’m afraid I don’t understand. ‘Good name’?” “Yes.” Mrs. Lapidus studies the registration form. She has not had to go through this confusion with the two other Indian children. “I’m not sure I follow you, Mr. Ganguli. Do you mean that Nikhil is a middle name? Or a nickname? Many of the children go by nicknames here. On this form there is a space—” “No, no, it’s not a middle name,” Ashoke says. He is beginning to lose patience. “He has no middle name. No nickname. The boy’s good name, his school name, is Nikhil.” Mrs. Lapidus presses her lips together and smiles. “But clearly he doesn’t respond.” “Please, Mrs. Lapidus,” Ashoke says. “It is very common for a child to be confused at first. Please give it some time. I assure you he will grow accustomed.” He bends down, and this time in Bengali, calmly and quietly, asks Gogol to please answer when Mrs. Lapidus asks a question. “Don’t be scared, Gogol,” he says, raising his son’s chin with his finger. “You’re a big boy now. No tears.” Though Mrs. Lapidus does not understand a word, she listens carefully, hears that name again. Gogol. Lightly, in pencil, she writes it down on the registration form. Ashoke hands over the lunchbox, a windbreaker in case it gets cold. He thanks Mrs. Lapidus. “Be good, Nikhil,” he says in English. And then, after a moment’s hesitation, Gogol’s father is gone. At the end of his first day he is sent home with a letter to his parents from Mrs. Lapidus, folded and stapled to a string around his neck, explaining that owing to their son’s preference he will be known as Gogol at school. What about the parents’ preference? Ashima and Ashoke wonder, shaking their heads. And so Gogol’s formal education begins. At the top of sheets of scratchy pale-yellow paper he writes out his pet name again and again, and the alphabet in capital and lowercase. He learns to add and subtract, and to spell his first words. In the front covers of the textbooks from which he is taught to read he leaves his legacy, writing his name in No. 2 pencil below a series of others. In art class, his favorite hour of the week, he carves his name with paper clips into the bottoms of clay cups and bowls. He pastes uncooked pasta to cardboard, and leaves his signature in fat brushstrokes below paintings. Day after day he brings his creations home to Ashima, who hangs them proudly on the refrigerator door. “Gogol G.,” he signs his work in the lower right-hand corner, as if there were a need to distinguish him from any other Gogol in the school. In May his sister is born. This time, Ashoke and Ashima are ready. They have the names lined up, for a boy or a girl. The only way to avoid confusion, they have concluded, is to do away with the pet name altogether, as many of their Bengali friends have already done. For their daughter, good name and pet name are one and the same: Sonali, meaning “she who is golden.” Though Sonali is the name on her birth certificate, the name she will carry officially through life, at home they begin to call her Sonu, then Sona, and, finally, Sonia. Sonia makes her a citizen of the world. It’s a Russian link to her brother, it’s European, South American. Eventually it will be the name of the Indian Prime Minister’s Italian wife. As a young boy Gogol doesn’t mind his name. He recognizes pieces of himself in road signs: “Go Left,” “Go Right,” “Go Slow.” For birthdays his mother orders a cake on which his name is piped across the white frosted surface in a bright-blue sugary script. It all seems perfectly normal. It doesn’t bother him that his name is never an option on key chains or refrigerator magnets. He has been told that he was named after a famous Russian author, born in a previous century. That the author’s name, and therefore his, is known throughout the world and will live on forever. One day his father takes him to the university library, and shows him, on a shelf well beyond his reach, a row of Gogol spines. When his father opens up one of the books to a random page, the print is far smaller than in the Hardy Boys series Gogol has begun recently to enjoy. “In a few years,” his father tells him, “you’ll be ready to read them.” Though substitute teachers at school always pause, looking apologetically when they arrive at his name on the roster, forcing Gogol to call out, before even being summoned, “That’s me,” his regular teachers know not to give it a second thought. After a year or two, the students no longer tease and say “Giggle” or “Gargle.” In the programs of the school Christmas plays, the parents are accustomed to seeing his name among the cast. “Gogol is an outstanding student, curious and coöperative,” his teachers write year after year on report cards. “Go, Gogol!” his classmates shout on golden autumn days as he runs the bases or sprints in a dash. As for his last name, Ganguli, by the time he is ten he has been to Calcutta three times, twice in summer and once during Durga pujo, and from the most recent trip he still remembers the sight of the name etched respectably into the pink stone façade of his paternal grandparents’ house. He remembers the astonishment of seeing six pages full of Gangulis, three columns to a page, in the Calcutta telephone directory. He’d wanted to rip out the page as a souvenir, but, when he’d told this to one of his cousins, the cousin had laughed. On taxi rides through the city, going to visit the various homes of his relatives, his father had pointed out the name elsewhere, on the awnings of confectioners, and stationers, and opticians. He had told Gogol that Ganguli was a legacy of the British, an anglicized way of pronouncing his real surname, Gangopadhyay. Back home on Pemberton Road, he helps his father paste individual golden letters bought from a rack in the hardware store, spelling out Ganguli on one side of their mailbox. One morning, the day after Halloween, Gogol discovers, on his way to the bus stop, that it has been shortened to “Gang,” with the word “green” scrawled in pencil following it. He runs back into the house, sickened, certain of the insult his father will feel. Though it is his last name, too, something tells Gogol that the desecration is intended for his parents more than for Sonia and him. For by now he is aware, in stores, of cashiers smirking at his parents’ accents, and of salesmen who prefer to direct their conversation to Gogol, as though his parents were either incompetent or deaf. But his father is unaffected at such moments, just as he is unaffected by the mailbox. “It’s only boys having fun,” he tells Gogol, flicking the matter away with the back of a hand, and that evening they drive to the hardware store, to buy the missing letters again. Gogol’s fourteenth birthday. Like most events in his life, it is another excuse for his parents to throw a party for their Bengali friends. His own friends from school were invited the previous day, for pizzas that his father picked up on his way home from work, a basketball game watched together on television, some Ping-Pong in the den. His mother cooks for days beforehand, cramming the refrigerator with stacks of foil-covered trays. She makes sure to prepare his favorite things: lamb curry with lots of potatoes, luchis, thick channa dal with swollen brown raisins, pineapple chutney, sandeshes molded out of saffron-tinted ricotta cheese. All this is less stressful to her than the task of feeding a handful of American children, half of whom always claim they are allergic to milk, all of whom refuse to eat the crusts of their bread. Close to forty guests come, from three different states. Women are dressed in saris far more dazzling than the pants and polo shirts their husbands wear. A group of men sit in a circle on the floor and immediately start a game of poker. These are all his mashis and meshos, his honorary aunts and uncles. Presents are opened when the guests are gone. Gogol receives several dictionaries, several calculators, several Cross pen-and-pencil sets, several ugly sweaters. His parents give him an Instamatic camera, a new sketchbook, colored pencils and the mechanical pen he’d asked for, and twenty dollars to spend as he wishes. Sonia has made him a card with Magic Markers, on paper she’s ripped out of one of his own sketchbooks, which says “Happy Birthday Goggles,” the name she insists on calling him instead of Dada. His mother sets aside the things he doesn’t like, which is almost everything, to give to his cousins the next time they go to India. Later that night he is alone in his room, listening to side three of the White Album on his parents’ cast-off RCA turntable. The album is a present from his American birthday party. Born when the band was near death, Gogol is a passionate devotee of John, Paul, George, and Ringo. He sits cross-legged on the bed, hunched over the lyrics, when he hears a knock on the door. “Come in!” he hollers, expecting it to be Sonia in her pajamas, asking if she can borrow his Rubik’s Cube. He is surprised to see his father, standing there in stocking feet, a small potbelly visible beneath his oat-colored sweater vest, his mustache turning gray. Gogol is especially surprised to see a gift in his father’s hands. His father has never given him birthday presents apart from whatever his mother buys, but this year, his father says, walking across the room to where Gogol is sitting, he has something special. The gift is covered in red-and-green-and-gold-striped paper left over from Christmas the year before, taped awkwardly at the seams. It is obviously a book, thick, hardcover, wrapped by his father’s own hands. Gogol lifts the paper slowly, but in spite of this the tape leaves a scab. “The Short Stories of Nikolai Gogol,” the jacket says. Inside, the price has been snipped away on the diagonal. “I ordered it from the bookstore, just for you,” his father says, his voice raised in order to be heard over the music. “It’s difficult to find in hardcover these days. It’s a British publication, a very small press. It took four months to arrive. I hope you like it.” Gogol leans over toward the stereo to turn the volume down a bit. He would have preferred “The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy,” or even another copy of “The Hobbit” to replace the one he lost last summer in Calcutta, left on the rooftop of his father’s house in Alipore and snatched away by crows. In spite of his father’s occasional suggestions, he has never been inspired to read a word of Gogol, or of any Russian writer, for that matter. He has never been told why he was really named Gogol. He thinks his father’s limp is the consequence of an injury playing soccer in his teens. “Thanks, Baba,” Gogol says, eager to return to his lyrics. Lately he’s been lazy, addressing his parents in English, though they continue to speak to him in Bengali. Occasionally he wanders through the house with his running sneakers on. At dinner he sometimes uses a fork. His father is still standing there in his room, watching expectantly, his hands clasped together behind his back, so Gogol flips through the book. A single picture at the front, on smoother paper than the rest of the pages, shows a pencil drawing of the author, sporting a velvet jacket, a billowy white shirt, and a cravat. The face is foxlike, with small, dark eyes, a thin, neat mustache, an extremely large pointy nose. Dark hair slants steeply across his forehead and is plastered to either side of his head, and there is a disturbing, vaguely supercilious smile set into long, narrow lips. Gogol Ganguli is relieved to see no resemblance. For by now he’s come to hate questions pertaining to his name, hates having constantly to explain. He hates having to tell people that it doesn’t mean anything “in Indian.” He hates having to wear a nametag on his sweater at Model United Nations Day at school. He hates that his name is both absurd and obscure, that it has nothing to do with who he is, that it is neither Indian nor American but, of all things, Russian. He hates having to live with it, with a pet name turned good name, day after day, second after second. He hates seeing it on the brown-paper sleeve of the National Geographic subscription his parents got him for his birthday the year before, and seeing it perpetually listed in the high honor roll printed in the town’s newspaper. At times his name, an entity shapeless and weightless, manages nevertheless to distress him physically, like the scratchy tag of a shirt he has been forced permanently to wear. At times he wishes he could disguise it, shorten it somehow, the way the other Indian boy in his school, Jayadev, had got people to call him Jay. But Gogol, already short and catchy, resists mutation. Other boys his age have begun to court girls already, asking them to go to the movies or the pizza parlor, but he cannot imagine saying, “Hi, it’s Gogol” under potentially romantic circumstances. He cannot imagine this at all. From the little he knows about Russian writers, it dismays him that his parents chose the weirdest namesake. Leo or Anton, he could have lived with. Alexander, shortened to Alex, he would have greatly preferred. But Gogol sounds ludicrous to his ears, lacking dignity or gravity. What dismays him most is the irrelevance of it all. Gogol, he’s been tempted to tell his father on more than one occasion, was his father’s favorite author, not his. Then again, it’s his own fault. He could have been known, at school at least, as Nikhil. That one day, his first day of kindergarten, which he no longer remembers, could have changed everything. “Thanks again,” Gogol tells his father now. He shuts the cover and swings his legs over the edge of the bed, to put the book away on his shelves. But his father takes the opportunity to sit beside him on the bed. For a moment he rests a hand on Gogol’s shoulder. The boy’s body, in recent months, has grown tall, nearly as tall as Ashoke’s. The childhood pudginess has vanished from his face. The voice has begun to deepen, is slightly husky now. It occurs to Ashoke that he and his son probably wear the same size shoe. In the glow of the bedside lamp, Ashoke notices a scattered down emerging on his son’s upper lip. An Adam’s apple is prominent on his neck. The pale hands, like Ashima’s, are long and thin. He wonders how closely Gogol resembles him at this age. But there are no photographs to document Ashoke’s childhood; not until his passport, not until his life in America, does visual documentation exist. On the night table Ashoke sees a can of deodorant, a tube of Clearasil. He lifts the book from where it lies on the bed between them, running a hand protectively over the cover. “I took the liberty of reading it first. It has been many years since I have read these stories. I hope you don’t mind.” “No problem,” Gogol says. “I feel a special kinship with Gogol,” Ashoke says, “more than with any other writer. Do you know why?” “You like his stories.” “Apart from that. He spent most of his adult life outside his homeland. Like me.” Gogol nods. “Right.” “And there is another reason.” The music ends and there is silence. But then Gogol flips the record, turning the volume up on “Revolution 1.” “What’s that?” Gogol says, a bit impatiently. Ashoke looks around the room. He notices the Lennon obituary pinned to the bulletin board, and then a cassette of classical Indian music he’d bought for Gogol months ago, after a concert at Kresge, still sealed in its wrapper. He sees the pile of birthday cards scattered on the carpet, and remembers a hot August day fourteen years ago in Cambridge when he held his son for the first time. Ever since that day, the day he became a father, the memory of his accident has receded, diminishing over the years. Though he will never forget that night, it no longer lurks persistently in his mind, stalking him in the same way. Instead, it is affixed firmly to a distant time, to a place far from Pemberton Road. Today, his son’s birthday, is a day to honor life, not brushes with death. And so, for now, Ashoke decides to keep the explanation of his son’s name to himself. “No other reason. Good night,” he says to Gogol, getting up from the bed. At the door he pauses, turns around. “Do you know what Dostoyevsky once said?” Gogol shakes his head. “ ‘We all came out of Gogol’s overcoat.’ ” “What’s that supposed to mean?” “It will make sense to you one day. Many happy returns of the day.” Gogol gets up and shuts the door behind his father, who has the annoying habit of always leaving it partly open. He turns the lock on the knob for good measure, then wedges the book on a high shelf between two volumes of the Hardy Boys. He settles down again with his lyrics on the bed when something occurs to him. This writer he is named after—Gogol isn’t his first name. His first name is Nikolai. Not only does Gogol Ganguli have a pet name turned good name but a last name turned first name. And so it occurs to him that no one he knows in the world, in Russia or India or America or anywhere, shares his name. Not even the source of his namesake. Plenty of people changed their names: actors, writers, revolutionaries, transvestites. In history class, Gogol has learned that European immigrants had their names changed at Ellis Island, that slaves renamed themselves once they were emancipated. Though Gogol doesn’t know it, even Nikolai Gogol renamed himself, simplifying his surname at the age of twenty-two, from Gogol-Yanovsky to Gogol, upon publishing in the Literary Gazette. One day in the summer of 1986, in the frantic weeks before moving away from his family, before his freshman year at Yale is about to begin, Gogol Ganguli does the same. He rides the commuter rail into Boston, switching to the Green Line at North Station, getting out at Lechmere, the closest stop to the Middlesex Probate and Family Court. He wears a blue oxford shirt, khakis, a camel-colored corduroy blazer bought for his college interviews that is too warm for the sultry day. Knotted around his neck is his only tie, maroon with yellow stripes on the diagonal. By now Gogol is just shy of six feet tall, his body slender, his thick brown-black hair slightly in need of a cut. His face is lean, intelligent, suddenly handsome, the bones more prominent, the pale-gold skin clean-shaven and clear. He has inherited Ashima’s eyes—large, penetrating, with bold, elegant brows—and shares with Ashoke the slight bump at the very top of his nose. The courthouse is an imposing, pillared brick building occupying a full city block, but the entrance is off to the side, down a set of steps. Inside, Gogol empties his pockets and steps through a metal detector, as if he were at an airport, about to embark on a journey. He is soothed by the chill of the air-conditioning, by the beautifully carved plaster ceiling, by the voices that echo pleasantly in the marbled interior. A man at the information booth tells him to wait upstairs, in an area filled with round tables, where people sit eating their lunch. Gogol sits impatiently, one long leg jiggling up and down. The idea to change his name had first occurred to him a few months ago. He was sitting in the waiting room of his dentist, flipping through an issue of Reader’s Digest. He’d been turning the pages at random until he came to an article that caused him to stop. The article was called “Second Baptisms.” “Can you identify the following famous people?” was written beneath the headline. The only one he guessed correctly was Robert Zimmerman, Bob Dylan’s real name. He had no idea that Leon Trotsky was born Lev Davidovich Bronstein. That Gerald Ford’s name was Leslie Lynch King, Jr., and that Engelbert Humperdinck’s was Arnold George Dorsey. They had all renamed themselves, the article said, adding that it was a right belonging to every American citizen. He read that tens of thousands of Americans, on average, had their names changed each year. All it took was a legal petition. That night at the dinner table, he brought it up with his parents. It was one thing for Gogol to be the name penned in calligraphy on his high-school diploma, and printed below his picture in the yearbook, he’d begun. But engraved, four years from now, on a bachelor-of-arts degree? Written at the top of a résumé? Centered on a business card? It would be the name his parents picked out for him, he assured them, the good name they’d chosen for him when he was five. “What’s done is done,” his father had said. “It will be a hassle. Gogol has, in effect, become your good name.” “It’s too complicated now,” his mother said, agreeing. “You’re too old.” “I’m not,” he persisted. “I don’t get it. Why did you have to give me a pet name in the first place? What’s the point?” “It’s our way, Gogol,” his mother maintained. “It’s what Bengalis do.” “But it’s not even a Bengali name. How could you guys name me after someone so strange? No one takes me seriously.” “Who? Who does not take you seriously?” his father wanted to know, lifting his fingers from his plate, looking up at him. “People,” he said, lying to his parents. For his father had a point; the only person who didn’t take Gogol seriously, the only person who tormented him, the only person chronically aware of and afflicted by the embarrassment of his name, the only person who constantly questioned it and wished it were otherwise, was Gogol. “I don’t know, Gogol,” his mother had said, shaking her head. “I really don’t know.” She got up to clear the dishes. Sonia slinked away, up to her room. Gogol remained at the table with his father. They sat there together, listening to his mother scraping the plates, the water running in the sink. “Then change it,” his father said simply, quietly, after a while. “Really?” “In America anything is possible. Do as you wish.” With relief, he types his name at the top of his freshman papers. He reads the telephone messages his roommates leave for Nikhil on assorted scraps of paper. He opens up a checking account, writes his new name into his course books. “Me llamo Nikhil,” he says in his Spanish class. It is as Nikhil, that first semester, that he grows a goatee, starts smoking Camel Lights at parties and, while writing papers and before exams, discovers Brian Eno and Elvis Costello and Charlie Parker. It is as Nikhil that he takes Metro-North into Manhattan one weekend and gets himself a fake I.D. that allows him to be served liquor in New Haven bars. It is as Nikhil that he loses his virginity at a party at Ezra Stiles, with a girl wearing a plaid woollen skirt and combat boots and mustard tights. By the time he wakes up, hung over, at three in the morning, she has vanished from the room, and he is unable to recall her name. There is only one complication: he doesn’t feel like Nikhil. Not yet. Part of the problem is that the people who now know him as Nikhil have no idea that he used to be Gogol. They know him only in the present, not at all in the past. But, after eighteen years of Gogol, two months of Nikhil feel scant, inconsequential. At times he feels as if he’d cast himself in a play, acting the part of twins, indistinguishable to the naked eye yet fundamentally different. At times he still feels his old name, painfully and without warning, the way his front tooth had unbearably throbbed in recent weeks after a filling, threatening for an instant to sever from his gums when he drank coffee, or ice water. Even more startling is when those who normally call him Gogol refer to him as Nikhil. Though he has asked his parents to do precisely this, the fact of it troubles him, making him feel in that instant that he is not related to them, not their child. “Please come visit us with Nikhil one weekend,” Ashima says to his roommates when she and Ashoke visit campus during parents’ weekend in October, the suite hastily cleared of liquor bottles and ashtrays for the occasion. The substitution sounds wrong to Gogol, correct but off key, the way it sounds when his parents speak English to him instead of Bengali. At Thanksgiving, he takes the train up to Boston. He feels distracted for some reason, impatient to be off the train; he does not bother to remove his coat, does not bother to go to the café car for something to drink even though he is thirsty. His mother and Sonia have gone to India for three weeks, to attend a cousin’s wedding, and this year Gogol and his father will spend Thanksgiving at the home of friends. He angles his head against the window and watches the autumnal landscape pass: the spewing pink and purple waters of a dye mill, electrical power stations, a big ball-shaped water tank covered with rust. Abandoned factories, with rows of small square windows partly bashed in, ravaged as if by moths. On the trees the topmost branches are bare, the remaining leaves yellow, paper-thin. The train moves more slowly than usual, and when he looks at his watch he sees that they are running well behind schedule. And then, somewhere outside Providence, in an abandoned field, the train stops moving. For more than an hour they stand there while a solid, scarlet disk of sun sinks into the tree-lined horizon. The lights turn off, and the air inside the train turns uncomfortably warm. The conductors rush anxiously through the compartments. “Probably a broken wire,” the gentleman sitting beside Gogol remarks. Across the aisle a gray-haired woman reads, a coat clutched like a blanket to her chest. Without the sound of the engine Gogol can hear an opera playing faintly on someone’s Walkman. Through the window he admires the darkening sapphire sky. He sees spare lengths of rusted rails heaped in piles. It isn’t until they start moving again that an announcement is made on the loudspeaker about a medical emergency. But the truth, overheard by one of the passengers from a conductor, quickly circulates: a suicide has been committed, a person has jumped in front of the train. He is shocked and discomforted by the news, feeling bad about his irritation and impatience, wondering if the victim had been a man or a woman, young or old. He imagines the person consulting the same schedule that’s in his backpack, determining exactly when the train would be passing through. As a result of the delay he misses his commuter-rail connection in Boston, waits another forty minutes for the next one. He puts a call through to his parents’ house, but no one answers. He tries his father’s department at the university, but there, too, the phone rings and rings. At the station he sees his father waiting on the darkened platform, wearing sneakers and corduroys, anxiousness in his face. A trenchcoat is belted around his waist, a scarf knitted by Ashima wrapped at his throat, a tweed cap on his head. “Sorry I’m late,” Gogol says. “How long have you been waiting?” “Since quarter to six,” his father says. Gogol looks at his watch. It is nearly eight. “There was an accident.” “I know. I called. What happened? Were you hurt?” Gogol shakes his head. “Someone jumped onto the tracks. Somewhere in Rhode Island. I tried to call you. They had to wait for the police, I think.” “I was worried.” “I hope you haven’t been standing out in the cold all this time,” Gogol says, and from his father’s lack of response he knows that this is exactly what he has done. The night is windy, so much so that the car jostles slightly from time to time. Normally on these rides back from the station his father asks questions, about his classes, about his finances, about his plans for the future. But tonight they are silent, Ashoke concentrating on driving. Gogol fidgets with the radio. “I want to tell you something,” his father says, once they have already turned onto their road. “What?” Gogol asks. “It’s about your name.” Gogol looks at his father, puzzled. “My name?” His father shuts off the radio. “Gogol. There is a reason for it, you know.” “Right, Baba. Gogol’s your favorite author. I know.” “No,” his father says. He pulls in to the driveway and switches off the engine, then the headlights. He undoes his seat belt, guiding it with his hand as it retracts, back behind his left shoulder. “Another reason.” And, as they sit together in the car, his father revisits a field two hundred and nine kilometres from Howrah. With his fingers lightly grasping the bottom of the steering wheel, his gaze directed through the windshield at the garage door, he tells Gogol the story of the train he’d ridden twenty-five years ago, in October, 1961. He tells him about the night that had nearly taken his life, and the book that had saved him, and about the year afterward, when he’d been unable to move. Gogol listens, stunned, his eyes fixed on his father’s profile. Though there are only inches between them, for an instant his father is a stranger, a man who has kept a secret, has survived a tragedy, a man whose past he does not fully know. A man who is vulnerable, who has suffered in an inconceivable way. He imagines his father, a college student as Gogol is now, sitting on a train as Gogol had just been, reading a story, and then suddenly nearly killed. He struggles to picture the West Bengal countryside he has seen on only a few occasions, his father’s mangled body, among hundreds of dead ones, being carried on a stretcher, past a twisted length of maroon compartments. Against instinct he tries to imagine life without his father, a world in which his father does not exist. “Why don’t I know this about you?” Gogol says. His voice sounds harsh, accusing, but his eyes well with tears. “Why haven’t you told me this until now?” “It never felt like the right time,” his father says. “But it’s like you’ve lied to me all these years.” When his father doesn’t respond, he adds, “That’s why you have that limp, isn’t it?” “It happened so long ago. I didn’t want to upset you.” “It doesn’t matter. You should have told me.” “Perhaps,” his father concedes, glancing briefly in Gogol’s direction. He removes the keys from the ignition. “Come, you must be hungry. The car is getting cold.” But Gogol doesn’t move. He sits there, still struggling to absorb the information, feeling awkward, oddly ashamed, at fault. “I’m sorry, Baba.” His father laughs softly. “You had nothing to do with it, Gogol.” And suddenly the sound of his pet name, uttered by his father as he has been accustomed to hearing it all his life, means something completely new, bound up with a catastrophe he has unwittingly embodied for years. “Is that what you think of when you think of me?” Gogol asks him. “Do I remind you of that night?” “Not at all,” his father says eventually, one hand going to his ribs, a habitual gesture that has baffled Gogol until now. “You remind me of everything that followed.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Folklore of Our Times	The Folklore of Our Times The New Yorker, June 9, 2003 P. 90 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a man who meets a school friend who reminisces about his high-school girlfriend... I started high school in 1963. But as to whether the era brought my generation any special radiance, I'm not so sure. In the sixties, virginity held a greater significance than it does today. This is the story of someone in my class. His grades were good, he was athletic, he was considerate, had leadership qualities. Good-looking in a clean-cut sort of way. You just have to accept that in any collective body there will be such types. He had a girlfriend, hands down the prettiest girl in the school. She got good grades, but she was also an athlete and a leader. Mr. and Miss Clean. He and I ran into each other in the Italian town of Lucca. by coincidence, he was staying at the same hotel I was. We dined together. He ran trading firm that specialized in European furniture. Of course, he was successful. By the second bottle of wine he was telling me his story. "I saw fences all around me, and I was careful never to go beyond them. There were guidelines, like on a highway. You just had to follow the signs and you'd get there. So that was how I did everythingóI did it the right way. I had no problems, but did I have any notion of what it meant to be alive?" He and Yoshiko Fujisawa were such spiritual twins it was creepy. Neither child could get close to anyone. There were both popular and essentially friendless, and they didn't understand why. Perhaps normal imperfect human being simply preferred the company of other normal imperfect human beings. They fell in love. When it came to physical contact, they had their rules: never to take off their clothes, to touch each other only with their hands. These relations did not entirely satisfy him. He wanted to have sex. "I want to stay a virgin until I'm married." She had an image of the life she wanted to live. He approached her with a plan. As soon as they finished college, they could get married. "No. I'm going to marry someone a little older; you're going to marry someone a little younger. He left for Tokyo University. She stayed in Kobe, where she enrolled at a very proper woman's college. He was lonely in Tokyo, still unable to make friends. He decided that he had to take the sex question out of the freezer and serve it up again. "I'm sorry I just can't give you my virginity. I'm scared of living, of having to make a life. The real world frightens me sick." And then she said the strangest thing: "After I'm married, I'll sleep with you. I promise." She and I broke up. It gets to where you're so well trained, you can do only what you're told to do. I got over it somehow. There's no universal need to be an honor's student. I was still single when I got a phone call from Yoshiko. Her husband was four years older than she, too busy to have kids. She invited me to her place. I went. We embraced, but I didn't sleep with her. We petted for a long, long time. After, I felt I'd wasted my whole life. I went straight out and got myself a hooker." There isn't much here that you could call a moral. It's the story of his life, which is why I couldn't laugh when I heard it and why I still can't. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Accident	This is how it happens. A gust of wind sweeps up a pile of dirt from the roadwork outside Xinhua Bookshop, swirls it around in an arc above the bitumen, and then dumps it everywhere. It isn’t the dust-storm season—the weather is only just starting to turn warm. Some cyclists are still wearing gray cotton overcoats, though on the sidewalks there are young women in pale-blue spring dresses. It happens at five o’clock in the afternoon, right after the fourth beep sounds on the radio in the radio-repair shop on Desheng Avenue. It isn’t the hour when everyone finishes work and traffic congestion is at its worst. Inevitably, however, some people finish work early. Inevitably, too, some people aren’t working at all. So there are busy and idle people coming and going, in an endless stream of cyclists and pedestrians. At this time of day it’s always like this. On the buses, all the seats are taken and some passengers stand, holding on to the handrails as they look out the windows. A man riding a bicycle that has been fitted with an extra wheel in front, for a baby carriage with a red-and-blue checkered shade, is crossing the street diagonally. Coming from the opposite direction is a two-car trolleybus that is going fast but not too fast. It is clearly moving slower than the small pale-green car that is about to overtake the bicycle, but neither is necessarily exceeding the city speed limit. The man on the bicycle arches his back, pedalling hard, as the little green car passes him on the other side. On this side, the bus is still heading toward him. The man hesitates but he doesn’t brake, and the bicycle with the baby carriage continues its crossing. The bus sounds its horn but doesn’t reduce its speed. By the time the man crosses the white line in the middle of the road, the dust from the gust of wind has settled, so his vision is not obscured. Unblinking, he looks up. He is about forty, not a young man, and his hat is tilted slightly backward, revealing a balding forehead. Sitting in the baby carriage under the shade is a three- or four-year-old child with rosy cheeks. The man must be able to see the bus coming toward him and to hear its horn, which is now sounding continuously. He hesitates again and seems to brake slightly, but then continues clumsily on his diagonal trajectory. As the bus gets closer and closer, its horn gets louder and louder, and then there is a piercing screech of brakes. The bicycle is still moving forward. The bus is trying to stop, but it, too, continues its ominous movement, like a wall closing in. Just as the bus and the bicycle are about to collide, a woman on the sidewalk on this side of the street starts to scream. Pedestrians and cyclists look on, but no one seems capable of moving. The front wheel of the bicycle passes the front of the bus, and the man starts pedalling harder—maybe he will just make it. At the same time, he reaches out to touch the red-and-blue checkered shade, as if he is trying to push it down. When his hand touches the shade, the carriage flies off, bouncing away on its single wheel. The man’s legs are caught as he throws up his arms and falls backward off the bicycle. In the clamor of the horn, the brakes, and the woman’s screams, but before onlookers have time to gasp, the man is crushed under the wheels of the bus. The bicycle he was riding is twisted and thrown ten feet away. The pedestrians on both sides of the road are stunned, and the cyclists get off their bicycles. There is a sudden silence, the only sound a gentle song coming from the radio-repair shop: You may remember our meeting in the mist under the broken bridge. It is probably a record by some post-Deng Lijun Hong Kong singer. The bus’s front wheels have come to a stop in a pool of blood, and blood is dripping from the bus back onto the man’s body. The bus driver gets to the body first. Then people from both sides of the street come running, while others surround the overturned baby carriage, which has rolled into the gutter. A middle-aged woman takes the child out of the carriage, shakes him, and examines him all over. “Is he dead?” “He’s dead!” “Is he dead?” People talk in hushed voices all around. The child’s eyes are tightly shut and his soft skin is so drained of color that you can see the blue veins through it. But there is no sign of external injury. “Don’t let the driver get away!” “Hurry, call the police!” A crowd several layers deep has formed around the front of the bus. Only one man is inquisitive enough to lift up the twisted wreck of the bicycle. Its bell rings as he puts it back down. “Don’t touch anything! Leave everything as it is!” “I clearly honked the horn and braked! Everyone saw it—he was trying to kill himself by riding into the bus! How can you say it’s my fault?” In a strained voice, the driver tries to explain, but no one pays any attention. “You can all be witnesses—all of you saw it!” “Step aside! Step aside! Step aside, all of you!” A policeman with a big hat emerges from the crowd. “The child needs help! Quick! Stop a car and get him to a hospital!” A young man in a coffee-colored leather jacket runs into the middle of the road, waving his arms. A small Toyota sedan toots its horn as it makes its way through the pedestrians who have spilled onto the street, but it doesn’t stop. Next, a 130 light truck pulls up and comes to a halt. Inside the bus, the passengers are bickering with a woman ticket-seller. Another bus pulls up behind. The doors of the first bus open and the passengers surge out, blocking the bus that has just arrived. There is a loud burst of voices. I will never, never be able to forget . . . The noise drowns out the music on the radio. Blood is still dripping, and the smell of it hangs in the air. “Waaa . . .” The child finally breaks into a howl. “That’s a good sign!” “He’s still alive!” There are happy sighs of relief. As the howling grows louder, the people around the child also come to life: it is as if they have been liberated. They rush to join the crowd by the body. Wailing sirens. A police car with flashing blue lights on its roof pulls up. Four policemen get out, and the crowd parts to make way for them. Two of them are wielding batons. The traffic has now come to a standstill and long lines of vehicles are waiting in both directions. Honking horns rise above the din of voices. One of the policemen stations himself in the middle of the road and starts waving his white-gloved hands to direct traffic. The other policemen summon the ticket-seller from the second bus. She tries to make excuses, but then reluctantly takes the child from the middle-aged woman who has been holding him and gets into the 130 light truck. A white glove signals, and the truck drives off, carrying with it the baby’s shrill sobs. A policeman is questioning the driver, who is wiping the sweat off his face with his cotton cap. He takes out his driver’s license, in its red plastic holder, and the policeman confiscates it. He immediately starts to complain. “Why are you trying to deny it? If you ran over the man, then you ran over him!” a young man pushing a bicycle says in a loud voice. “He was trying to get himself killed. The driver was blowing the horn and braking and the man wouldn’t give way. He just rode under the bus.” The ticket-seller, wearing sleeve protectors, has come out of the first bus to rebuke the young man. “The man was in the middle of the road and had a child with him. It was broad daylight. The driver must have seen him!” someone in the crowd interjects angrily. “What does it matter to drivers like him if they run someone over? It’s not as if they’ll have to pay for it with their own lives.” This is said sarcastically. “What a tragedy! If he hadn’t had the child with him, he would have made it across in time!” “Is there any hope for him?” “His brain came out?” “I just heard this plop—” “You heard it?” “Yes, it just went plop.” “Enough! I don’t want to know!” “Ai, that’s the way life is—a person can die just like that.” “He’s crying.” “Who?” “The driver.” The driver, squatting on his haunches with his head down, covers his eyes with his cap. “It was an accident.” “The man had a child with him? What happened to the child?” a newcomer asks. “The child wasn’t hurt. He was very lucky.” “The child was saved.” “The man is dead!” “Was he the child’s father?” “Why did he have to hook a baby carriage to his bicycle? It’s hard enough not to have an accident with a regular bicycle.” “He’d just picked up the child from nursery school.” “Nursery schools are hopeless—they won’t let you leave your children there for the whole day.” “You’re lucky if you can get your kid into one at all.” “What are you looking at? From now on, if you run across the road without looking—” A big hand drags away a child who is trying to squeeze between the onlookers. The Hong Kong star has stopped singing. The front of the radio-repair shop is crowded with people. An ambulance has arrived, its red lights flashing. Medical personnel in white uniforms carry the body to the ambulance, and the people in shop doorways stand on their toes to watch. The fat cook from a small restaurant nearby has come out in his apron to see what’s going on. “What happened? Was there an accident? Was someone hurt?” “It was a father and son. One of them is dead.” “Which one?” “The old man.” “What about the son?” “Unhurt.” “That’s terrible! Why didn’t he pull his father out of the way?” “It was the father who pushed the son out of the way.” “It’s getting worse with every generation. The man was wasting his time on that son!” “If you don’t know what happened, then don’t talk crap.” “Who’s talking crap?” “I don’t want to argue with you.” “The child was taken away.” “There was a small child as well?” Others have just arrived. “Do you mind not shoving?” “Did I shove you?” “Move on. All of you move on!” On the outer fringes of the crowd, people are being arrested. Traffic-safety personnel with red armbands are now on the scene, and they are more vicious than the police. The driver, who is being pushed into the police car, turns and tries to struggle, but the policemen close the door. People start walking and riding away, and the crowd thins, but still more people come along, stopping their bicycles or stepping off the sidewalks and into the street. On this side of the road, a long line of cars, vans, jeeps, and limousines, led by the second bus, make their slow way past the baby carriage with the torn red-and-blue checkered shade, which is still in the gutter. Most of the crowd has dispersed. In the middle of the road, two policemen take measurements, while another makes notes in a little book. The pool of blood under the wheels of the bus has already started to congeal and turn black. The ticket-seller sits by a window, gazing blankly at this side of the road. On the other side, another bus is approaching. Faces stare from behind the windows and some passengers even poke their heads out. Now the workday is over, and it is peak traffic time. There are even more people on the sidewalks and on bicycles. But the police and the traffic-safety personnel keep them off the road. “Was there an accident?” “Was someone killed?” “Must have been—look at all that blood.” “Yesterday there was an accident on Jiankang Road. A sixteen-year-old was taken to the hospital, but they couldn’t save him. They said he was an only son.” “Every family has only one son these days.” “Ai, how will the parents manage?” “If no one does anything to improve traffic safety, there’ll only be more accidents!” “Well, there won’t be fewer accidents, that’s for sure.” “Every day I worry until my Jiming gets home from school.” “It’s easier with your son—daughters are more of a worry to their parents.” “Look, look! They’re taking photographs.” “A lot of good that will do! It’s too late.” “Did the bus hit him on purpose?” “Who knows?” “The carriage can’t have been attached, or else it would have been hit, too.” “I was just passing by.” “Some people drive like maniacs. They’re not going to stop just because you won’t get out of the way!” “There are people who take out their frustrations by killing other people. Anyone could be a victim.” “It’s hard to protect yourself against that kind of thing—it’s all determined by fate. In our old village, there was a carpenter who was a good craftsman, but he was very fond of drinking. Once, he was building someone a house and, coming home at night drunk out of his mind, he tripped and smashed his head on a rock.” “For some reason, my eyelid has been twitching for the past couple of days.” “Which eye?” “You shouldn’t walk down the street so lost in thought all the time. Quite a few times I’ve seen you—” “Nothing’s ever happened to me.” “But if something did I wouldn’t be able to bear it.” “Stop it! People are staring.” The two lovers look at each other and walk off down the street, holding hands. The police have finished photographing the scene of the accident, and the policeman with the tape measure takes a shovel of dirt and spreads it over the blood. The wind has died down, and it is getting dark. The ticket-seller sitting by the window of the bus has turned on the lights and is counting the day’s take. A policeman shoulders the wrecked bicycle and carries it to the car. Two men with red armbands get the baby carriage from the gutter, put it in the car, and leave with the police. It is time for dinner. The ticket-seller stands at the door of the bus, waiting impatiently for a new driver to be sent to pick it up. Passersby now barely glance at the empty bus that is stopped for some unknown reason in the middle of the road. In the dark, no one notices the blood, which is covered with dirt and barely visible. At some point, the street lights come on and the empty bus is driven away. Cars speed down the road again, and it is as if nothing has happened. By midnight, the street is almost empty. A street-cleaning truck approaches from a distant intersection, where the traffic lights flash intermittently next to a blue poster on an iron railing. Printed in white are the words “for your well-being and that of others, please observe traffic rules.” At the spot where the accident occurred, the truck slows and, with high-powered jets of water, flushes away any remaining traces of blood. The street cleaners have no way of knowing that an accident took place here a few hours ago and that the unfortunate victim died. But who was the victim? In this city of several million people, he was likely known only to his family and his friends. And if he wasn’t carrying identification papers even they may not yet know about the accident. The man was probably the child’s father, and it is possible that the child will be able to tell the authorities his name. If the man was the father, he must have had a wife, too. And yet he was the one picking up the child, so he was both a good father and a good husband. Because he loved his child, presumably he also loved his wife, but did his wife love him? If she loved him, why didn’t she fulfill her responsibilities as a mother and pick up the child herself? Maybe the man had a miserable life and that’s why he was so distracted. Maybe it was a flaw in his personality and he was always indecisive. Maybe something had been troubling him, something he couldn’t resolve, and he was simply fated to fall victim to this even greater misfortune. However, if he had set out a little later or a little earlier, he might have avoided disaster. Or if, after picking up the child, he had pedalled faster or slower, or if he had spoken longer with the woman at the nursery school, or if, on the way, he had run into a friend and stopped to talk . . . But it was unavoidable. He had no incurable disease, yet, all the same, he was just waiting to die. No one can escape death. And no city is free of traffic accidents. In every city there is the possibility of death—even if the chance on any given day is one in a million—and in a big city like this someone is always encountering some sort of misfortune. The dead man was one such person. Did he have a premonition before it happened? When it was happening, what did he think about? He probably didn’t have time to think, to comprehend the disaster that was about to befall him. For him, there could be no greater disaster. He was that one in a million, like a grain of sand. But before dying he had clearly thought of the child. Had he nobly sacrificed himself? Or perhaps it wasn’t purely noble—perhaps it was to some extent instinctive, the instinct of a father. People talk about the strength of a mother’s instinct, but there are also mothers who abandon their babies. For the man to have sacrificed himself for the child was indeed noble, but in fact the sacrifice had been entirely avoidable. If he had set out a little later or a little earlier, as I’ve said, if he had not been preoccupied, if he were more resolute by nature, or more agile in his movements . . . The sum total of these failures had hastened his death. Here I am, discussing philosophy, but life is not philosophy, although philosophy derives from one’s knowledge of life. And there is no need for us to turn life’s traffic accidents into statistics—that’s a job for the traffic-safety department. Of course, a traffic accident can serve as an item in a newspaper. And it can provide the raw material for literature, when it is supplemented by the imagination and described in a moving narrative. But what I have related here is simply the accident itself, a traffic accident that occurred at five o’clock in the central section of Desheng Avenue, in front of the radio-repair shop. —Beijing, 1983 ♦ (Translated, from the Chinese, by Mabel Lee.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Cryptology	Nachman had arrived in New York the previous evening, and was walking along Fifth Avenue when she came up behind him, calling, “Nachman, Nachman, is that you?” He looked back and saw a woman shining with a happiness for which he, apparently, was responsible. His mere existence had turned on her lights. Nachman kissed her on both cheeks, and then they stood chatting at the corner of Forty-second Street, the millions passing with the minutes. When Nachman parted from her, he was holding her business card and the key to her apartment in Chelsea, having promised to join her and her husband for dinner that evening. “If you arrive before us, just wait in the apartment,” she said. “It’s been so many years, Nachman. I’m Helen Ferris now. Do you know my husband, Benjamin Strong Ferris? He’s a lawyer. Also a name in computer science and cryptology. I assume you’re in New York for the cryptology conference. Benjamin goes there to find geniuses like you for his company.” “As a matter of fact,” Nachman said, but she was still talking. “It would be wonderful if we could have a drink, just you and me, and remember the old days, but I have to run. There’ll be time to talk later. I can’t tell you how glad I am that we ran into each other. Actually, Nachman, I followed you for about five blocks. I couldn’t believe it was you. Benjamin will be so delighted. He’s heard me talk about you so often. Should I cook, or should we have dinner out? Oh, let’s decide later.” When she stopped talking, Nachman said that he didn’t know the name Benjamin Strong Ferris, and he didn’t consider himself a genius. “I’m a good mathematician,” he added. “Good is rare enough, believe me.” Helen Ferris smiled with affectionate understanding, as if his modesty amused her, but there was also something more. She seemed to believe that a special bond existed between her and Nachman. To disguise his ignorance—what special bond was there between them?—Nachman became expansive, even somewhat confessional. He told Helen Ferris that he was indeed in New York for the cryptology conference; he’d been invited to a job interview by a representative of the Delphic Corporation. But whoever had invited him hadn’t given his name. Helen Ferris obviously took great pleasure in listening to Nachman, and yet he saw a blankness in her rapt, almost delirious focus, as if she were not listening so much as appreciating. Her eyes devoured his, and her smile, which had a mischievous quality, also suggested a rictus in its unrelieved tension and shape. This intensity, and her alarming red lipstick, made Nachman think that she wanted to eat him. He wondered if a smile was an evolutionary phenomenon, carried in the genes, a reflexive anticipation of a meal—not necessarily made of people, but who knows what the ancestral diet was? Nachman smiled in response to Helen Ferris’s smile, but he felt no desire to eat her. “So the person who invited you didn’t give his name?” she prompted. “The letter was signed by a secretary. Abigail M. Stokes. She just gave me the name of the hotel and a date and time for the interview. To tell the truth, I didn’t really come to New York because of the interview—I wanted to visit my father, who lives in Brooklyn. I haven’t seen him in years. And, since Delphic was paying for my ticket and hotel room, why not? The interview was set for one o’clock this afternoon, and I figured they were taking me to lunch, but nobody was there to meet me. No one at the hotel desk had heard of the Delphic Corporation, and my room had been paid for by an individual whose name they weren’t free to disclose. So since then I’ve been walking around feeling a little . . . I don’t know what. Weirdly disappointed.” “It is certainly weird,” Helen Ferris said. “But why disappointed? You got a free trip to New York. How clever of you! You’re sure there was no other name at the bottom of the letter?” she asked. “You know what I mean—it didn’t say something like ‘Abigail M. Stokes for Joe Schmo’?” Nachman wondered fleetingly if Helen Ferris thought he was an idiot. “No Joe Schmo. Somebody anonymous wanted to interview me for a job. I have a job. I’m not looking for another one. But I agreed to come. Why not? I figured I might even learn about cryptology, an exciting field. A good mathematician could make a lot of money fooling with codes. Mind you, I said good. I didn’t say genius.” “Would you have considered taking the job?” “Not seriously, though it would be fun to be a millionaire. I fancied myself buying things like a dishwasher, but I don’t work for money. You know what I mean. My salary pays my bills. I work like most people, not to waste my life. Have you been to Santa Monica? That’s where I live. On the beach you see people with nice bodies and no jobs. Also no brains. Life is too short to waste a minute getting a sunburn. I’ve never even taken a vacation. I don’t know why anybody would want to. Anyhow, as I said, I wanted to visit my father. This was an opportunity. Expenses paid by the Delphic mystery man.” “You don’t own a dishwasher?” Helen Ferris asked, giggling. “I bet I know what happened. Delphic decided to hire somebody else before you arrived, and then they forgot all about you and went home.” “But they paid for my ticket and hotel room.” “They’ll write it off. The cost of doing business. You feel disappointed, but it isn’t the least bit personal. You mean nothing to them.” “I’m meaningless?” “Not to me,” Helen Ferris said. Was she teasing him? Or was she right? To the Delphic people Nachman probably was meaningless. “I’ve got to go,” she said. “I’m so excited. We’ll have fun tonight.” As she walked away, Nachman wondered how long it had been since he last saw Helen Ferris. He also wondered, Who, exactly, was Helen Ferris? She remembered him so well. She had called out his name in the street. How could he say, “Who are you?” Another man might have been able to say it. Not Nachman. In a few hours, she would expect him to show up and meet her husband. The prospect of joining strangers for dinner had something adventurous about it, even devilish and appropriate to New York. Nachman didn’t know anyone in the city who was as friendly as his old friend Helen Ferris, whoever she was. He was simply unable to remember her. Her wide cheekbones and dark, roundish face, with its maternally sexy brown eyes, looked Semitic, maybe a little Asian, but she might just as easily be Mexican or Puerto Rican. He’d known women who looked like her, but remembered none named Helen. She was quite attractive, though a little scary. You’d think he’d remember her for that reason. Had she noticed his confusion? People can tell if you recognize them or not. They see it in your eyes, hear it in your voice. Oh, well. Nachman would get the question out of the way when he saw her again. It would be more embarrassing later than it would have been a few minutes ago, but he wouldn’t let the evening pass without confessing. The key to Helen Ferris’s apartment was in his pants pocket. Her card was in his wallet. Dinner was still a few hours away. Nachman continued walking aimlessly, trying to remember. How do you try to remember? You make yourself passive, receptive, available. If it comes, it comes. A strange kind of trying. He wondered if there had been a clue to her identity in what she’d said. Unfortunately, Nachman had done most of the talking. The look in Helen Ferris’s eyes and her red smile came to him; nothing else. She refused to step out of the shadows of his mind. The late-October weather felt summery, but, as the afternoon wore on, Nachman detected a quality in the breeze that was too poignant for summer, had too fine an edge. Another year was nearly over. Nachman liked the poignancy, could almost see it in the changing light. The sun would soon be lower in the sky. Darkness and cold would invade the streets and challenge people’s energy, give steel to their thoughts. Nachman felt as if he were walking heroically into the heart of the drama, the adventure of the city, and not just because of the season. Helen Ferris was part of New York’s endemic adventurousness. The crowds, the traffic, the buildings, the changing weather, the city’s infinite complexity, its unknowability—who could comprehend it? Nachman felt exhilarated. From a certain point of view, there was even an adventure in being stood up at the cryptology conference. Invited, all expenses paid, to come three thousand miles only to find nobody who gives a damn whether you came or not. No explanation, no apology. Not even a note at the hotel desk. This couldn’t have happened in hick towns like London, Paris, Rome, Berlin, and Tokyo. That was what made New York great. Nobody gave a shit about anybody. The truth was that Nachman was enraged. He had smiled as he talked to Helen Ferris. He hadn’t let her see his anger. She might have thought that he was angry at her. Nachman chuckled to himself and shook his head ruefully, as if he required a moment of private ironic theatre. His mood became philosophical. After all, he was morally compromised. He’d agreed to the interview in bad faith. He’d had no intention of changing jobs, and had wanted only to visit his father. In fact, he had planned to go directly from the airport to his father’s apartment, but when he phoned—once from the plane, then again from the airport—nobody had answered. His father was old and forgetful. He might have gone out. He might even have gone to visit relatives in Connecticut. So Nachman had taken a cab to the hotel. He’d visit his father tomorrow, if the old guy answered the goddam phone. If not, he’d fly back to California, feeling that he’d wasted his time. As for the sense of adventure, the weather and all that, he saw now that it had been a fantasy, a kind of lie. Nachman had simply been trying to give value to this trip. He could kid himself only so long before self-contempt made him see things as they were. Only a fool would accept an invitation to meet somebody who had no name. Nachman was a fool. That was now an established fact. Good. He felt much better. A few hours later, Nachman entered a building in Chelsea. The doorman, who had been given Nachman’s name, said, “Go right up. Apartment 14-B.” The elevator was brightened by three half-mirrored walls. Nachman could see himself from head to waist in triplicate. These three half Nachmans made him feel less, rather than more, visible. The reflections seemed mental rather than physical, but he was suddenly claustrophobic, as if the elevator were overcrowded. Below the mirrors, there was a walnut-stained surface embossed with carved flowers. A brass strip marked the place where the wood met the gray industrial-carpeted floor. Nachman studied the light fixture directly above his head. A fat bulb glowed through a bowl of cloudy glass that was subtly textured. The elevator spoke for the building, Nachman thought—a confusion of materials suggesting luxurious waste. It carried him slowly to the fourteenth floor, then stopped with a jerk. Nothing about Helen Ferris had come to Nachman. He supposed that he must have known her when he was a graduate student at U.C.L.A. He’d had quite a few acquaintances then, men and women with whom he’d since lost touch. There had been parties where he’d fallen into intense and transitory intimacy with people to whom he’d only nodded as they passed on campus later, avoiding eye contact. Wait a minute. Hadn’t he once left a party with a dark girl who had been too drunk to drive? Hadn’t he driven her in her Jaguar to her parents’ house in Beverly Hills? Hadn’t they . . . what? The elevator doors opened. No, that girl’s name was Dolores. She looked nothing like Helen Ferris. There were four apartment doors, two on either side of the hall, which was carpeted in the same way as the elevator, and was stunningly silent. Dim lights, set in elaborate brass sconces, trailed along the walls. Nachman found the door to 14-B. He looked at a brass-rimmed eyehole as he pressed the black, nipplelike bell. He heard a muffled gong inside the apartment. He waited. Nobody answered. He pressed the bell again and waited. Nobody answered. The key worked. The door opened into a large room. “Hello,” Nachman said, careful not to shriek. “Anybody home?” No one responded. He stepped inside, shut the door, and realized that he wasn’t alone. An odor of perfumed soap lay on the air, which was faintly moist and warm. He heard water running and glanced at what he guessed was a bathroom door. It was partly open. Someone was taking a shower and had heard nothing because of the noise of the water. Nachman was reluctant to shout. People taking a shower feel defenseless and are easily frightened. Nachman stood in the large room. It was maybe forty by twenty feet, with a gleaming maple floor. A bar counter separated the kitchen area from the rest of the room. Furniture was clustered in the middle, floating in space. A glass-topped coffee table was set lengthwise between two red sofas, with black chairs at either end. Nachman noticed a rolltop desk against a wall, and a library table holding stacks of papers. The room had tall windows that looked across the avenue toward the windows of other buildings. Near the farthest wall there was a dresser and a bed with night tables and reading lamps. To the right of the bed, a spiral staircase led to an opening in the ceiling, apparently the second floor of the apartment. A suitcase was on the bed. It sat in the middle of a bulky white comforter that had been flung back, revealing silky cobalt-blue sheets. At the foot of the bed was a large television on a wheeled aluminum stand that held magazines on a shelf above the wheels. In the ceiling there were two rows of track lights. Who was in the shower? Helen or Benjamin Ferris? In answer to his question, Nachman heard voices. They were amplified in the largely hollow space of the room, as if in the barrel of a drum. The man’s voice was emotionally neutral. The woman’s voice was strained, higher-pitched. It was Helen Ferris. “I’m not finished. Why don’t you get out and let me finish?” They were showering together, Nachman realized. “I don’t want to have to talk to him alone.” “Oh, for Christ’s sake. You can talk to him until I come out. Fix him a drink. Turn on the TV and watch the ballgame. Men like sports. You won’t even have to talk to him. Be nice for once in your fucking life.” “Hey, hey, hey. I’m supposed to be nice? Like I invited the schmuck to the apartment? I’ll pick up the check at dinner, baby, but that’s where it ends. This is your affair.” “Don’t start with the affair business. He’s not my type.” “You have types?” “I’m always nice to your friends, Benjamin, even when they bore me to death.” “Friend? You said he didn’t even recognize you.” “So what? He’s drifty. Not your average New York cocksmith, like some persons I could name. I’ll remind him who I am at dinner.” “I’ll be sitting there, for Christ’s sake. He’ll die.” “He won’t know I told you anything. Besides, he probably doesn’t remember that, either. He’s practically certifiable. I think his fly was unzipped.” “Don’t make me jealous.” Helen Ferris laughed. Benjamin Ferris went on, “What’s the guy’s name? Nachman?” “What’s wrong with Nachman?” “I didn’t say there was anything wrong with it.” “It’s your tone. You think Ferris is so beautiful? People are always saying, ‘Like the Ferris wheel?’ It embarrasses me.” Nachman walked past the bathroom, crossing the thirty feet or so to the television set. He put the key on top of the TV. He’d heard enough. He was leaving. As he drew his hand away, the key fell to the floor. It had stuck to his fingertips, which were slightly damp. So were his palms. He was perspiring. The key made a sharp clink when it hit the floor. Nachman bent quickly to retrieve it, as if to undo the noise. If they had heard the key fall, they knew he was in the apartment. He couldn’t leave. He would have to confront them. No. He would shout hello and pretend that he’d just arrived. They would pretend that they didn’t know he’d heard them talking about him. Every word the three of them said would be a lie. He put the key back on the television, and it remained there as he drew his hand away. He’d never before overheard people talking about him. It was unnerving. He’d been radically objectified, like an insensate rock, while his soul floated in the air. A general hurt spread within his chest and began to seep like a poison through his body. He couldn’t think clearly. It was hard to breathe. Again Nachman felt an impulse to leave, but he couldn’t simply walk back to the door. If they heard the door shut behind him, they’d feel terrible, knowing Nachman had heard them. Why should he care? Nachman cared. The open suitcase on the bed was large and old-fashioned, made of yellow leather like a beautiful Gladstone, with straps and metal corners. What he saw in the suitcase told him that Helen and Benjamin were packing for a trip. How nice. They did things together—travelled, showered, bickered, and said vile things about people who had never done them any harm. Their conjugal solidarity was daunting. If only Nachman had stayed in California, he’d have gone to work in his office at the Institute of Mathematics and never heard himself described as a drifty man who walks about with his fly unzipped. Nothing she had said was true, but she had said it. She had actually said it. We were all going to die, but Helen Ferris had to kill people. The voices persisted, but Nachman focussed on the suitcase and tried not to listen. Shirts, underwear, dresses, trousers, and tennis shoes lay in a confused pile, and a stack of papers had been tossed on top. Nachman admired the indifference with which the expensive-looking clothes had been flung into the suitcase. He saw passports and airline-ticket envelopes among the papers and reached out to open them. His hands were shaking. His heart swelled as he intruded upon the privacy of strangers. How could he do this? Before he’d engaged the question, he felt a soft pressure against his leg. He looked down and saw an exceptionally fat Siamese cat. It must have hidden under the bed, frightened of Nachman, but had now clearly decided that he was no threat. The cat leaped onto the bed and stepped into the suitcase, settling on top of the papers, as if it knew that Nachman had been about to look at them. The cat wanted Nachman’s attention. Nachman stroked its back. A fat purring friend come to comfort and console him. While he stroked the cat with one hand, he tried to lift the corners of the papers with the other. There were no rugs or drapes in the room, nothing to absorb the voices, and the moisture in the air only sharpened them. Nachman wasn’t listening, but then, abruptly, the water noise ceased. “He’s had a hard time,” Helen Ferris said. “He flew across the country to meet someone at the conference and he was stood up. I felt sorry for him.” “If I were stood up, I wouldn’t tell anyone. Word gets around. People think you’re a schmuck.” “He tried to be cheerful, but I could tell he was furious. The minute I said hello he started venting like a maniac.” Helen Ferris’s voice changed, becoming husky and teasing. “Tell me, Benjamin,” she said. “What?” “That I’m beautiful.” “Come here.” She laughed. “No, no, no.” Nachman glanced toward the bathroom door. He imagined Helen Ferris’s dark-brown hair, cut level with her chin, now a wet black shining cap around her eyes and cheeks. Her mouth, free of lipstick, was softened and bloated by hot water. Nachman thought she’d look better without lipstick. He remembered her motherly sexy eyes. Barefoot, she was maybe five-two, as high as his chest. She had wide hips. Did she have large breasts? Nachman hadn’t noticed. She squealed. The note was pitched so high that Nachman thought—terrified—that she had entered the room and was staring at him with shock and revulsion. He shut the suitcase instantly. On the cat. It thrashed against the leather. Instead of flipping the case open, Nachman pressed the lid down harder, as if to hide the evidence. Not too hard, not hurting the cat, but thus, unintentionally, Nachman gave it time to piss. When he realized that he was alone and hadn’t been seen, he opened the case. The cat sped across the blue silk sheet and jumped onto the maple floor. It vanished behind the bar in the kitchen, and Nachman saw that it had deposited about a gallon of liquid in the suitcase. Letters and legal papers had softened and wrinkled, edges curling as urine attacked their fibres. In the elevator, Nachman kept his eyes on the doors and didn’t glance at the mirrored walls. He didn’t want to see his reflection. In a spasm of superstitious dread, he thought that if he saw it he might be obliged to leave it behind. He wanted to get entirely out of the building, taking himself and his reflection far away from the Ferris couple, particularly the naked squealing Helen Ferris. The Ferrises had taken something from him, torn a hole in his existence. Out of the corner of his eye, he saw the doorman nod. Nachman went by with no acknowledgment and was immediately outside in the anonymous street. He wanted no human recognition, however minimal, as he headed downtown. Strangers passed like ghostly shapes in the night. Nachman walked mindlessly, block after block, until, gradually, he stopped feeling devastated and, in the cool nighttime air of the city, recovered the good simplicity of being himself. “A fool,” he said, “but mine own.” He thought about finding a restaurant and having dinner. But he decided that he wasn’t hungry and continued walking. In Washington Square Park, Nachman came to an empty bench and sat down. The paths were shadowed by trees, through which lamplight shone brokenly. He couldn’t make out the features of passersby, and assumed that he was more or less invisible to them, too. Alone, unknown, unseen, he became deeply peaceful and free in his thoughts. He thought about Helen Ferris. Her smile, which Nachman had read as anticipation, he now understood had meant something different, like expectation. Nachman had been expected to light up just as she had, but he had failed to recognize her. He was no longer the person he had been. God knows what she thought of him now. Perhaps she believed that Nachman, not the cat, had pissed in the suitcase. She already thought he was drifty. Now she might think he was insane. What she might say about him beggared the imagination. She had given him her card. He could phone her tomorrow, or perhaps the day after, from California, and explain what had happened. He could ask her to tell him her maiden name. If he finally remembered who she was, he might then be enriched by memories of himself. Memories are far superior to photographs, for example, which are good only for nostalgia, not for understanding. But did Nachman want those memories? The Nachman he no longer remembered was certainly himself. After all, who else could it be? Nachman realized that he had just performed an inductive act. Induction and analogy, in which he was highly gifted, were critical to mathematical intelligence. It has been said that the unexamined life isn’t worth living. Nachman wasn’t against examining his life, but then what was a life? The day before yesterday he’d been in California, and tomorrow he could be almost anywhere on the globe. He could change his name, learn a new language, start a new existence. He could go to an exotic place, get married, have children of various colors and surprising features. People did it all the time. He could herd yaks in Mongolia, or be a slave trader in Sudan. It took no courage to consult a travel agent. Such metaphysicians were in the phone book. “Get me a flight to Mongolia,” Nachman said to himself. “One way.” How absurd. He wasn’t adventurous. As for “a life,” it was what you read about in newspaper obituaries. He didn’t need one. He would return to California and think only about mathematics. Just imagining Mongolia, with its bleak and freezing plains, had made him homesick. On a bench nearby, partly obscured by shadows, a man began playing a guitar. The tune was a bossa nova, exquisitely sad, something like a blues only more finely nuanced and not at all macho. The rhythm was subtly engaging and it seemed to caress Nachman’s heart. He thought again about phoning Helen Ferris. He’d apologize, certainly, for not having waited until she and her husband came out of the bathroom. Vaguely, he supposed that they might have a lot to say to him. His thoughts became still more vague as they surrendered to the bossa nova, and soon he wasn’t thinking at all, only following the tune. It made a lovely sinuous shape, and then made it again and again, always a little different and yet always the same, as the rhythm carried its exquisite sadness toward infinity. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Tapka	Goldfinch was flapping clotheslines, a tenement delirious with striving. 6030 Bathurst: insomniac, scheming Odessa. Cedarcroft: reeking borscht in the hallways. My parents, Soviet refugees but Baltic aristocrats, took an apartment at 715 Finch, fronting a ravine and across from an elementary school—one respectable block away from the Russian swarm. We lived on the fifth floor, my cousin, aunt, and uncle directly below us on the fourth. Except for the Nahumovskys, a couple in their fifties, there were no other Russians in the building. For this privilege, my parents paid twenty extra dollars a month in rent. In March of 1980, near the end of the school year but only three weeks after our arrival in Toronto, I was enrolled in Charles H. Best Elementary. Each morning, with our house key hanging from a brown shoelace around my neck, I kissed my parents goodbye and, along with my cousin Jana, tramped across the ravine—I to the first grade, she to the second. At three o’clock, bearing the germs of a new vocabulary, we tramped back home. Together, we then waited until six for our parents to return from George Brown City College, where they were taking an obligatory six-month course in English—a course that provided them with the rudiments of communication along with a modest government stipend. In the evenings, we assembled and compiled our linguistic bounty. Hello, havaryew? Red, yellow, green, blue. May I please go to the washroom? Seventeen, eighteen, nineteen, twenny. Joining us most nights were the Nahumovskys. They attended the same English classes and travelled with my parents on the same bus. Rita Nahumovsky was a beautician who wore layers of makeup, and Misha Nahumovsky was a tool-and-die maker. They came from Minsk and didn’t know a soul in Canada. With abounding enthusiasm, they incorporated themselves into our family. My parents were glad to have them. Our life was tough, we had it hard—but the Nahumovskys had it harder. They were alone, they were older, they were stupefied by the demands of language. Being essentially helpless themselves, my parents found it gratifying to help the more helpless Nahumovskys. After dinner, with everyone gathered on cheap stools around our table, my mother repeated the day’s lessons for the benefit of the Nahumovskys and, to a slightly lesser degree, for the benefit of my father. My mother had always been an exceptional and dedicated student, and she extended this dedication to George Brown City College. My father and the Nahumovskys came to rely on her detailed notes and her understanding of the curriculum. For as long as they could, they listened attentively and groped desperately toward comprehension. When this became too frustrating, my father put on the kettle, Rita painted my mother’s nails, and Misha told Soviet anekdoti. In a first-grade classroom a teacher calls on her students and inquires after their nationalities. “Sasha,” she says. Sasha says, “Russian.” “Very good,” says the teacher. “Arnan,” she says. Arnan says, “Armenian.” “Very good,” says the teacher. “Lyubka,” she says. Lyubka says, “Ukrainian.” “Very good,” says the teacher. And then she asks Dima. Dima says, “Jewish.” “What a shame,” says the teacher. “So young and already a Jew.” The Nahumovskys had no children, only a white Lhasa Apso named Tapka. The dog had lived with them for years before they emigrated and then travelled with them from Minsk to Vienna, from Vienna to Rome, and from Rome to Toronto. During our first month in the building, Tapka was in quarantine, and I saw her only in photographs. Rita had dedicated an entire album to the dog, and, to dampen the pangs of separation, she consulted the album daily. There were shots of Tapka in the Nahumovskys’ old Minsk apartment, seated on the cushions of faux-Louis XIV furniture; there was Tapka on the steps of a famous Viennese palace; Tapka at the Vatican, in front of the Colosseum, at the Sistine Chapel, and under the Leaning Tower of Pisa. My mother—despite having grown up with goats and chickens in her yard—didn’t like animals and found it impossible to feign interest in Rita’s dog. Shown a picture of Tapka, my mother wrinkled her nose and said, “Phoo.” My father also couldn’t be bothered. With no English, no money, no job, and only a murky conception of what the future held, he wasn’t equipped to admire Tapka on the Italian Riviera. Only I cared. Through the photographs, I became attached to Tapka and projected upon her the ideal traits of the dog I did not have. Like Rita, I counted the days until Tapka’s liberation. The day Tapka was to be released from quarantine, Rita prepared an elaborate dinner. My family was invited to celebrate the dog’s arrival. While Rita cooked, Misha was banished from their apartment. For distraction, he seated himself at our table with a deck of cards. As my mother reviewed sentence construction, Misha played hand after hand of durak with me. “The woman loves this dog more than me. A taxi to the customs facility is going to cost us ten, maybe fifteen dollars. But what can I do? The dog is truly a sweet little dog.” When it came time to collect the dog, my mother went with Misha and Rita to act as their interpreter. With my nose to the window, I watched the taxi take them away. Every few minutes, I reapplied my nose to the window. Three hours later, the taxi pulled into our parking lot, and Rita emerged from the back seat cradling animated fur. She set the fur down on the pavement where it assumed the shape of a dog. The length of its coat concealed its legs, and, as it hovered around Rita’s ankles, it appeared to have either a thousand tiny legs or none at all. My head ringing “Tapka, Tapka, Tapka,” I raced into the hallway to meet the elevator. That evening, Misha toasted the dog: “This last month, for the first time in years, I have enjoyed my wife’s undivided attention. But I believe no man, not even one as perfect as me, can survive so much attention from his wife. So I say, with all my heart, thank God our Tapka is back home with us. Another day and I fear I may have requested a divorce.” Before he drank, Misha dipped his pinkie finger into his vodka glass and offered it to the dog. Obediently, Tapka gave Misha’s finger a thorough licking. Impressed, my uncle declared her a good Russian dog. He also gave her a lick of his vodka. I gave her a piece of my chicken. Jana rolled her a pellet of bread. Misha taught us how to dangle food just out of Tapka’s reach and thereby induce her to perform a charming little dance. Rita also produced Clonchik, a red-and-yellow rag clown. She tossed Clonchik under the table, onto the couch, down the hallway, and into the kitchen; over and over, Rita called, “Tapka, get Clonchik,” and, without fail, Tapka got Clonchik. Everyone delighted in Tapka’s antics except my mother, who sat stiffly in her chair, her feet slightly off the floor, as though preparing herself for a mild electric shock. After the dinner, when we returned home, my mother announced that she would no longer set foot in the Nahumovskys’ apartment. She liked Rita, she liked Misha, but she couldn’t sympathize with their attachment to the dog. She understood that the attachment was a consequence of their lack of sophistication and also their childlessness. They were simple people. Rita had never attended university. She could derive contentment from talking to a dog, brushing its coat, putting ribbons in its hair, and repeatedly throwing a rag clown across the apartment. And Misha, although very lively and a genius with his hands, was also not an intellectual. They were good people, but a dog ruled their lives. Rita and Misha were sensitive to my mother’s attitude toward Tapka. As a result, and to the detriment of her progress with English, Rita stopped visiting our apartment. Nightly, Misha would arrive alone while Rita attended to the dog. Tapka never set foot in our home. This meant that, in order to see her, I spent more and more time at the Nahumovskys’. Each evening, after I had finished my homework, I went to play with Tapka. My heart soared every time Rita opened the door and Tapka raced to greet me. The dog knew no hierarchy of affection. Her excitement was infectious. In Tapka’s presence, I resonated with doglike glee. Because of my devotion to the dog, and their lack of an alternative, Misha and Rita added their house key to the shoelace hanging around my neck. During our lunch break and again after school, Jana and I were charged with caring for Tapka. Our task was simple: put Tapka on her leash, walk her to the ravine, release her to chase Clonchik, and then bring her home. Every day, sitting in my classroom, understanding little, effectively friendless, I counted down the minutes to lunchtime. When the bell rang, I met Jana on the playground and we sprinted across the grass toward our building. In the hall, our approaching footsteps elicited panting and scratching. When I inserted the key into the lock, I felt emanations of love through the door. And once the door was open Tapka hurled herself at us, her entire body consumed with the ecstasy of wagging. Jana and I took turns embracing her, petting her, covertly vying for her favor. Free of Rita’s scrutiny, we also satisfied certain anatomical curiosities. We examined Tapka’s ears, her paws, her teeth, the roots of her fur, and her doggy genitals. We poked and prodded her, we threw her up in the air, rolled her over and over, and swung her by her front legs. I felt such overwhelming love for Tapka that sometimes, when hugging her, I had to restrain myself from squeezing too hard and crushing her little bones. It was April when we began to care for Tapka. Snow melted in the ravine; sometimes it rained. April be-came May. Grass absorbed the thaw, turned green; dandelions and wildflowers sprouted yellow and blue; birds and insects flew, crawled, and made their characteristic noises. Faithfully and reliably, Jana and I attended to Tapka. We walked her across the parking lot and down into the ravine. We threw Clonchik and said, “Tapka, get Clonchik.” Tapka always got Clonchik. Everyone was proud of us. My mother and my aunt wiped tears from their eyes while talking about how responsible we were. Rita and Misha rewarded us with praise and chocolates. Jana was seven and I was six; much had been asked of us, but we had risen to the challenge. Inspired by everyone’s confidence, we grew confident. Whereas at first we made sure to walk thirty paces into the ravine before releasing Tapka, we gradually reduced that requirement to ten paces, then five paces, until finally we released her at the grassy border between the parking lot and the ravine. We did this not because of laziness or intentional recklessness but because we wanted proof of Tapka’s love. That she came when we called was evidence of her love, that she didn’t piss in the elevator was evidence of her love, that she offered up her belly for scratching was evidence of her love, that she licked our faces was evidence of her love. All of this was evidence, but it wasn’t proof. Proof could come in only one form. We had intuited an elemental truth: love needs no leash. That first spring, even though most of what was said around me remained a mystery, a thin rivulet of meaning trickled into my cerebral catch basin and collected into a little pool of knowledge. By the end of May, I could sing the ABC song. Television taught me to say “What’s up, Doc?” and “super-duper.” The playground introduced me to “shithead,” “mental case,” and “gaylord.” I seized upon every opportunity to apply my new knowledge. One afternoon, after spending nearly an hour in the ravine throwing Clonchik in a thousand different directions, Jana and I lolled in sunlit pollen. I called her shithead, mental case, and gaylord, and she responded by calling me gaylord, shithead, and mental case. “Shithead.” “Gaylord.” “Mental case.” “Tapka, get Clonchik.” “Shithead.” “Gaylord.” “Come, Tapka-lapka.” “Mental case.” We went on like this, over and over, until Jana threw the clown and said, “Shithead, get Clonchik.” Initially, I couldn’t tell if she had said this on purpose or if it had merely been a blip in her rhythm. But when I looked at Jana her smile was triumphant. “Mental case, get Clonchik.” For the first time, as I watched Tapka bounding happily after Clonchik, the profanity sounded profane. “Don’t say that to the dog.” “Why not?” “It’s not right.” “But she doesn’t understand.” “You shouldn’t say it.” “Don’t be a baby. Come, shithead, come my dear one.” Her tail wagging with accomplishment, Tapka dropped Clonchik at my feet. “You see, she likes it.” I held Clonchik as Tapka pawed frantically at my shins. “Call her shithead. Throw the clown.” “I’m not calling her shithead.” “What are you afraid of, shithead?” I aimed the clown at Jana’s head and missed. “Shithead, get Clonchik.” As the clown left my hand, Tapka, a white shining blur, oblivious to insult, was already cutting through the grass. I wanted to believe that I had intended the “shithead” exclusively for Jana, but I knew it wasn’t true. “I told you, gaylord, she doesn’t care.” I couldn’t help thinking, Poor Tapka. I felt moral residue and looked around for some sign of recrimination. The day, however, persisted in unimpeachable brilliance: sparrows winged overhead; bumblebees levitated above flowers; beside a lilac shrub, Tapka clamped down on Clonchik. I was amazed at the absence of consequences. Jana said, “I’m going home.” As she started for home, I saw that she was still holding Tapka’s leash. It swung insouciantly from her hand. I called after her just as, once again, Tapka deposited Clonchik at my feet. “I need the leash.” “Why?” “Don’t be stupid. I need the leash.” “No, you don’t. She comes when we call her. Even shithead. She won’t run away.” Jana turned her back on me and proceeded toward our building. I called her again, but she refused to turn around. Her receding back was a blatant provocation. Guided more by anger than by logic, I decided that if Tapka was closer to Jana then the onus of responsibility would be on her. I picked up the doll and threw it as far as I could into the parking lot. “Tapka, get Clonchik.” Clonchik tumbled through the air. I had put everything in my six-year-old arm behind the throw, which still meant that the doll wasn’t going very far. Its trajectory promised a drop no more than twenty feet from the edge of the ravine. Running, her head arched to the sky, Tapka tracked the flying clown. As the doll reached its apex, it crossed paths with a sparrow. The bird veered off toward Finch Avenue, and the clown plummeted to the asphalt. When the doll hit the ground, Tapka raced past it after the bird. A thousand times we had thrown Clonchik and a thousand times Tapka had retrieved him. But who knows what passes for a thought in the mind of a dog? One moment a Clonchik is a Clonchik, and the next moment a sparrow is a Clonchik. I shouted at Jana to catch Tapka and then watched in abject horror as the dog, her attention fixed on the sparrow, skirted past Jana and directly into traffic. From my vantage point on the slope of the ravine, I couldn’t see what happened. I saw only that Jana broke into a sprint and I heard the caterwauling of tires, followed by Tapka’s shrill fractured yip. By the time I reached the street, a line of cars already stretched a block beyond Goldfinch. At the front of the line were a brown station wagon and a pale-blue sedan blistered with rust. As I neared, I noted the chrome letters on the back of the sedan: d-u-s-t-e-r. In front of the sedan, Jana kneeled in a tight semicircle with a pimply young man and an older woman with very large sunglasses. Tapka lay on her side at the center of their circle. She panted in quick shallow bursts. She stared impassively at me, at Jana. Except for a hind leg twitching at the sky at an impossible angle, she seemed completely unharmed. She looked much as she did when she rested on the rug at the Nahumovskys’ apartment after a vigorous romp in the ravine. Seeing her this way, barely mangled, I felt a sense of relief. I started to convince myself that things weren’t as bad as I had feared, and I tentatively edged forward to pet her. The woman in the sunglasses said something in a restrictive tone that I neither understood nor heeded. I placed my hand on Tapka’s head, and she responded by opening her mouth and allowing a trickle of blood to escape onto the asphalt. This was the first time I had ever seen dog blood, and I was struck by the depth of its color. I hadn’t expected it to be red, although I also hadn’t expected it to be not-red. Set against the gray asphalt and her white coat, Tapka’s blood was the red I envisioned when I closed my eyes and thought: red. I sat with Tapka until several dozen car horns demanded that we clear the way. The woman with the large sunglasses ran to her station wagon, returned with a blanket, and scooped Tapka off the street. The pimply young man stammered a few sentences, of which I understood nothing except the word “sorry.” Then we were in the back seat of the station wagon with Tapka in Jana’s lap. The woman kept talking until she finally realized that we couldn’t understand her at all. As we started to drive off, Jana remembered something. I motioned for the woman to stop the car and scrambled out. Above the atonal chorus of car horns, I heard: “Mark, get Clonchik.” I ran and got Clonchik. For two hours, Jana and I sat in the reception area of a small veterinary clinic in an unfamiliar part of town. In another room, with a menagerie of afflicted creatures, Tapka lay in traction, connected to a blinking machine by a series of tubes. Jana and I had been allowed to see her once but were rushed out when we both burst into tears. Tapka’s doctor, a woman wearing a white coat and furry slippers resembling bear paws, tried to calm us down. Again, we could neither explain ourselves nor understand what she was saying. We managed only to establish that Tapka was not our dog. The doctor gave us coloring books, stickers, and access to the phone. Every fifteen minutes, we called home. Between phone calls, we absently flipped pages and sniffled for Tapka and for ourselves. We had no idea what would happen to Tapka; all we knew was that she wasn’t dead. As for ourselves, we already felt punished and knew only that more punishment was to come. “Why did you throw Clonchik?” “Why didn’t you give me the leash?” “You could have held on to her collar.” “You shouldn’t have called her shithead.” At six-thirty, my mother picked up the phone. I could hear the agitation in her voice. The ten minutes she had spent at home not knowing where I was had taken their toll. For ten minutes, she had been the mother of a dead child. I explained to her about the dog and felt a twinge of resentment when she said, “So it’s only the dog?” Behind her I heard other voices. It sounded as though everyone were speaking at once, pursuing personal agendas, translating the phone conversation from Russian to Russian until one anguished voice separated itself: “My God, what happened?” Rita. After getting the address from the veterinarian, my mother hung up and ordered another expensive taxi. Within a half hour, my parents, my aunt, and Misha and Rita pulled up at the clinic. Jana and I waited for them on the sidewalk. As soon as the taxi doors opened, we began to sob uncontrollably, partly out of relief but mainly in the hope of engendering sympathy. I ran to my mother and caught sight of Rita’s face. Her face made me regret that I also hadn’t been hit by a car. As we clung to our mothers, Rita descended upon us. “Children, what, oh, what have you done?” She pinched compulsively at the loose skin of her neck, raising a cluster of pink marks. While Misha methodically counted individual bills for the taxi-driver, we swore on our lives that Tapka had simply got away from us. That we had minded her as always but, inexplicably, she had seen a bird and bolted from the ravine and into the road. We had done everything in our power to catch her, but she had surprised us, eluded us, been too fast. Rita considered our story. “You are liars. Liars!” She uttered the words with such hatred that we again burst into sobs. My father spoke in our defense. “Rita Borisovna, how can you say this? They are children.” “They are liars. I know my Tapka. Tapka never chased birds. Tapka never ran from the ravine.” “Maybe today she did?” “Liars.” Having delivered her verdict, she had nothing more to say. She waited anxiously for Misha to finish paying the driver. “Misha, enough already. Count it a hundred times, it will still be the same.” Inside the clinic, there was no longer anyone at the reception desk. During our time there, Jana and I had watched a procession of dyspeptic cats and lethargic parakeets disappear into the back rooms for examination and diagnosis. One after another they had come and gone until, by the time of our parents’ arrival, the waiting area was entirely empty and the clinic officially closed. The only people remaining were a night nurse and the doctor in the bear-paw slippers, who had stayed expressly for our sake. Looking desperately around the room, Rita screamed, “Doctor! Doctor!” But when the doctor appeared she was incapable of making herself understood. Haltingly, with my mother’s help, it was communicated to the doctor that Rita wanted to see her dog. Pointing vigorously at herself, Rita asserted, “Tapka. Mine dog.” The doctor led Rita and Misha into the veterinary version of an intensive-care ward. Tapka lay on her little bed, Clonchik resting directly beside her. At the sight of Rita and Misha, Tapka weakly wagged her tail. Little more than an hour had elapsed since I had seen her last, but somehow over the course of that time Tapka had shrunk considerably. She had always been a small dog, but now she looked desiccated. She was the embodiment of defeat. Rita started to cry, grotesquely smearing her mascara. With trembling hands, and with sublime tenderness, she stroked Tapka’s head. “My God, my God, what has happened to you, my Tapkochka?” Through my mother, and with the aid of pen and paper, the doctor provided the answer. Tapka required two operations. One for her leg. Another to stop internal bleeding. An organ had been damaged. For now, a machine was helping her, but without the machine she would die. On the paper, the doctor drew a picture of a scalpel, of a dog, of a leg, of an organ. She made an arrow pointing at the organ and drew a teardrop and colored it in to represent blood. She also wrote down a number preceded by a dollar sign. The number was fifteen hundred. At the sight of the number, Rita let out a low animal moan and steadied herself against Tapka’s little bed. My parents exchanged a glance. I looked at the floor. Misha said, “My dear God.” The Nahumovskys and my parents each took in less than five hundred dollars a month. We had arrived in Canada with almost nothing, a few hundred dollars, which had all but disappeared on furniture. There were no savings. Fifteen hundred dollars. The doctor could just as well have written a million. In the middle of the intensive-care ward, Rita slid down to the floor and wailed. Her head thrown back, she appealed to the fluorescent lights: “Nu, Tapkochka, what is going to become of us?” I looked up from my feet and saw horror and bewilderment on the doctor’s face. She tried to put a hand on Rita’s shoulder, but Rita violently shrugged it off. My father attempted to intercede. “Rita Borisovna, I understand that it is painful, but it is not the end of the world.” “And what do you know about it?” “I know that it must be hard, but soon you will see. . . . Even tomorrow we could go and help you find a new one.” My father looked to my mother for approval, to insure that he had not promised too much. He needn’t have worried. “A new one? What do you mean, a new one? I don’t want a new one. Why don’t you get yourself a new son? A new little liar? How about that? New. Everything we have now is new. New everything.” On the linoleum floor, Rita keened, rocking back and forth. She hiccupped, as though hyperventilating. Pausing for a moment, she looked up at my mother and told her to translate for the doctor. To tell her that she would not let Tapka die. “I will sit here on this floor forever. And if the police come to drag me out I will bite them.” “Ritochka, this is crazy.” “Why is it crazy? My Tapka’s life is worth more than a thousand dollars. Because we don’t have the money, she should die here? It’s not her fault.” Seeking rationality, my mother turned to Misha—Misha who had said nothing all this time except “My dear God.” “Misha, do you want me to tell the doctor what Rita said?” Misha shrugged philosophically. “Tell her or don’t tell her, you see my wife has made up her mind. The doctor will figure it out soon enough.” “And you think this is reasonable?” “Sure. Why not? I’ll sit on the floor, too. The police can take us both to jail. Besides Tapka, what else do we have?” Misha sat on the floor beside his wife. I watched as my mother struggled to explain to the doctor what was happening. With a mixture of words and gesticulations, she got the point across. The doctor, after considering her options, sat down on the floor beside Rita and Misha. Once again, she tried to put her hand on Rita’s shoulder. This time, Rita, who was still rocking back and forth, allowed it. Misha rocked in time to his wife’s rhythm. So did the doctor. The three of them sat in a line, swaying together, like campers at a campfire. Nobody said anything. We looked at each other. I watched Rita, Misha, and the doctor swaying and swaying. I became mesmerized by the swaying. I wanted to know what would happen to Tapka; the swaying answered me. The swaying said: Listen, shithead, Tapka will live. The doctor will perform the operation. Either money will be found or money will not be necessary. I said to the swaying: This is very good. I love Tapka. I meant her no harm. I want to be forgiven. The swaying replied: There is reality and then there is truth. The reality is that Tapka will live. But, let’s be honest, the truth is you killed Tapka. Look at Rita; look at Misha. You see, who are you kidding? You killed Tapka and you will never be forgiven. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Walter John Harmon	When Betty told me she would go that night to Walter John Harmon I didn’t think I reacted. But she looked into my eyes and must have seen something—some slight loss of vitality, a moment’s dullness of expression. And she understood that for all my study and hard work the Seventh Attainment was still not mine. Dearest, she said, don’t be discouraged. The men have more difficulty. Walter John Harmon knows that and commends your struggle. You can go see him if you wish—it is the prerogative of husbands. No, I said, I’m all right. After she had gone, I went walking in the evening light across the pastures. It is beautiful country here, a broad undulant valley with brooks and natural ponds and no ground light to dim the stars or the moving lights of the jets up among them. This is where the Holy City will descend. The Community has in just two short years assembled the parcels of this valley. I did some real-estate law back in Charlotte, and I am proud to say that I have had no small hand in our accomplishment. It is in the nature of a miracle that Walter John Harmon has, in his effortless way, drawn so many of us to his prophecy. And that we have given everything we possess—not to him, to the Demand that comes through him. We are not idiots. We are not cult victims. In many quarters, we are laughed at for following as God’s prophet a garage mechanic, who, in his teens, was imprisoned for car theft. But this blessed man has revolutionized our lives. From the first moment I was in his presence I felt resolved in my soul. Everything was suddenly right. I was who I was. It is hard to explain. I saw the outside world darkened, as in a film negative. But I was in the light. And that I was blessed seemed to be established in his eyes. Walter’s pale-blue eyes are set so deep under the ridge of his brow that the irises are occluded at the top, like half-moons. It is almost a chilling gaze you feel upon you, as gentle as it may be—something not of this world but ineffable, expressive of God, like the gaze of an animal. So I knew the failing within me when Betty was this night summoned for Purification. Walter is at a level beyond lust. This is apparent, since all the wives, even the plainest, partake of his communion. His ministry annuls the fornications of a secular society. Betty and I, for example, made love many times before we were married. And the Community’s children, the children in white who have never known carnal sin, are not permitted to look at Walter John Harmon, lest he inspire them to confusion. They are the precious virgins, girls and boys, whose singing brings him such joy. He says nothing to them, of course, but smiles and closes those remarkable eyes and the tears stream from them like rain down a windowpane. Betty and I learned about Walter John Harmon from the Internet. I found myself reading someone’s Web log—how that happened I can’t remember. I think of it now as the beginning of His summons, for nothing is without significance in this world made by God. I called Betty and she came into my study, and together we read of this most remarkable event of the tornado that had occurred the year before in the town of Fremont, in west Kansas. There were links, too, all from this locality and all telling the same story. I logged on to the archives of the regional newspapers and confirmed that there had been a series of tornadoes throughout the state at that time, and that a particularly destructive twister hit Fremont head on. But, beyond that, not one newspaper reported the key thing. Not even in the Fremont Sun-Ledger was there an account of this one inexplicable occurrence of the cyclone that came through the middle of town, flinging cars into the air, shattering storefronts, lifting houses off their foundations, and, among other disasters, setting off a gas-and-oil fire that pooled on the floor of the repair shop of the Getty station on the corner of Railroad and Division Streets, where Walter John Harmon worked as a mechanic. I hold in my mind a composite account of what happened from the Web logs and from what we have since heard recounted by the townspeople who witnessed this or that particular moment and who followed Walter in his ministry and are now the Community Elders. Walter John Harmon himself has not been persuaded to write down a testament, nor has he permitted anything to be written in the way of documentation. “It is not the time for that,” he says. And then, “May it never be the time, for the day we falter and lose our way, that will be the time.” In fact, nothing in the Community is written. The Ideals, the Imperatives, the Assignments and Obligations are all pronounced, and, once spoken by the prophet, are carried and remembered by means of daily prayer. The miracles of the tornado are held in the imaginations of our minds and we speak of them to one another in our workday or social gatherings, so that as the years pass there will be a Consensus of the inner truth and its authority will be unquestionable. As he stood by the pool of fire, the garage doors, first, and then the roof and then the collapsed walls were lifted and spun into the black funnel. Only Walter John Harmon stood where he stood, and then was slowly raised in his standing and turned slowly in his turning, calmly and silently, his arms stretched wide in the black shrieking, with the things of our lives whirling in the whirlwind above him—car fenders, machines from the Laundromat, hats and empty coats and trousers, tables, mattresses, plates and knives and forks, TV sets and computers, all malignantly alive in the black howling. And then a child flew into Walter John Harmon’s left arm and another fell into his right arm, and he held them steadfast and was lowered to the ground where he had stood. And then the dreaded wind that takes all breath away was gone, having blown itself to bits. And the fields beyond the town were strewn with the several dead and dying among their possessions. But the pool of fire in the Getty garage was nothing but a ring of blackened concrete, and the sun was out as if the tornado had never been, and the mothers of those two children came running and found them bruised and bleeding and crying but alive. Only then did Walter John Harmon begin again to breathe, though he stood where he stood, unable to move, as if in a trance, until he collapsed and lost consciousness. All of this is in the Consensus. Other elements of the miracle are still debated by the Community and, I suppose, come under the heading of apocrypha. One of the Elders, Ansel Bernes, who had owned a clothing store, claims that seven mercury street lamps on the walking street in the Fremont business district came on and stayed on when the tornado hit. I can’t quite accept this. According to the Sun-Ledger, Fremont’s power outage was total. It took the local utility two days to get everyone back on line. When Betty and I came here, we had been married a dozen years, with no children to show for it. One of the appeals of the Community is that we are all parents of all children. While the adults live in quarters of their own, as in the outer world, the children room together in the main house. At present, we are fifty families with a human treasury of seventy-eight children, ranging in age from two to fifteen. Except for the main house, which was once a retreat for elderly nuns of the Roman Catholic persuasion, and to which we have added a new wing, all the Community buildings were built by members, according to the specifications of Walter John Harmon. He called for square, boxlike structures with gable roofs for the adult houses, each of which contains two apartments of two rooms each. His own residence is slightly larger, with a gambrel roof that gives it the appearance of a barn. All buildings in the complex are painted white—no colors are permitted, exterior or interior. Metal fixtures are not allowed, window frames are wood, all water is drawn by hand from wells, there is no indoor plumbing, and communal showers, men’s and women’s, are jerry-rigged in tents. Walter John Harmon has said, “We praise what is temporary, we cherish the impermanent, for there can be no comparison with what is coming that is not an impiety.” But in the business suite in the new wing of the main house we do have computers, faxes, copiers, and so on, powered by a gasoline generator behind the building—though we intend when it is practical to switch to solar cells. All of this is by dispensation, because, regrettably, we do have necessary business with the outside world. We handle legal challenges from state and county officials and must deal also with private suits brought by unthinking or opportunistic relations of our family members. But only the Community lawyers, and Elder Rafael Altman, our financial officer and C.P.A., and his bookkeepers, and the women who provide clerical help may enter these premises. Three of us practice law, and after morning prayers we go to work just like everyone else. By dispensation we own the habiliments of the legal profession—suits, shirts, ties, polished shoes—which we don for those occasions when we must meet with our counterparts in the world outside. We are driven by horse and wagon to the Gate, down at the paved road some two miles away. There we have the choice of the three parked S.U.V.s, though never the Hummer. The Hummer is reserved for Walter John Harmon. He does not proselytize but he does schedule spiritual meetings on the outside. Or he will attend ecumenical or scholarly conferences on this or that religious or social issue. He is never invited to participate, but is eloquent enough sitting quietly in the audience in his robe, his head bowed, his face almost hidden in the fall of his hair, and his hands folded under his chin. Betty returned early the next morning, the sun coming with her through the door, and I welcomed her with a hug. I meant it, too—I loved seeing her face in the morning. She is very fair and rises from her sleep with her cheeks flushed like a child’s and her hazel eyes instantly alert to the day. She is as lithe and fit as she was when she played field hockey in college. If you look closely, you can see tiny lines radiating from the corners of her eyes, but this only makes her more attractive. Her hair is the color of wheat, and she still wears it short, as she did when I met her, and she still has that spring to her step and her typically energetic way of doing things. We prayed together and then we had our bread and tea, chatting all the while. Betty served as a Community teacher, she had the kindergarten, and she was talking about her day’s plan. I felt better now. It was a beautiful day dawning with coverlets of white webbing on the grass. I had a renewed confidence in my own feelings. All at once, the most hideous carnal images arose in my mind. I wanted to speak but could not catch my breath. What is it, Jim, what? Betty held my hand. I closed my eyes until the images disappeared and I could breathe again. Oh, my dear one, she said. Last night was not the first time, after all. And have our lives changed? I’m telling you that it is not a normal human experience with any of the normal results. I don’t want to hear about it. It is not necessary for me to hear about it. It is no more, or no less, than a sacrament. It is no more than when the priest placed the wafer on our tongues. I held my hand up. Betty looked at me inquiringly, as in the old days, a pretty bird with its head cocked, wondering who I could possibly be. You know, she said, I had to tell Walter John Harmon. You should go see him. Look how your mouth is set, so hard, so angry. It was not for you to tell him, I said. I recognized an Obligation. Outside in the sun, I breathed the sweet air of the valley and tried to calm myself. Everything around me was a vision of serene life. We are the quietest people. You will never hear a loud argument or see a public display of temperament anywhere in the Community. Our children never fight, or push each other, or band together in hurtful cliques the way children do. The muslin we wear that suggests our common priesthood quiets the heart. The prayers we utter, the food we grow for ourselves in our fields provide an immense and recurring satisfaction. Betty followed me. Please, Jim, she said. You should talk to him. He will see you. Yes? And what if I am excused from my work, if I am remanded, who can argue the case? What case is that? You’re not entrusted to know. But believe me it’s critical. He will not remand you then. How can you know that? I may not be an Elder, but I’m approved to go beyond the Gate. And doesn’t that presuppose the Seventh? Why was I having to defend myself? Please, I said, I won’t talk about this anymore. Betty turned from me, and I felt her coldness. I had the maniacal thought that the Purifications wouldn’t be a problem for me if I no longer loved my wife. At our supper at the end of the day, she asked me to do something, some minor chore that I would have done without her asking, and I thought her tone was officious. To what extent was my legal work in the outside world holding me back from the prophetic realization offered by Walter John Harmon? Didn’t I have one foot in and one foot out? But wasn’t that my Imperative? He himself had said that the higher Attainments were elusive, difficult, and, as if they had personalities of their own, they were given to teasing us with simulacra of themselves. So there was no shame in being remanded. Perhaps for my own sake I should have requested it. But then would I not be putting myself before the needs of the Community? And wouldn’t that be to relinquish the Sixth Attainment? The following morning, before work, I went to the Tabernacle to pray. Our Tabernacle is no more than a lean-to. It stands at the high end of the lawn bordering the apple orchard. On a wooden table of our own making and without any ornamentation or covering sit a white stone and a common latchkey. I knelt in the grass in the sun, with my head bowed and my hands clasped. But, even as I uttered the prayers, my mind split in two. As I mouthed the words, all I could think of was this question: Had I come to the Community from the needs of my own heart, or had I merely gone along out of deference to the convictions of my wife? That’s how badly the doubts were assailing me. When I looked up, Walter John Harmon was standing in the Tabernacle. I had not seen him approach. Nor was he looking at me. He was staring at the ground seeing nothing but his own thoughts. Walter does not deliver sermons because, as he maintains, we are not a church, we are an Unfolding Revelation. He will appear at the Tabernacle unannounced at any time of the day, any day of the week, as the spirit moves him. At such times, the word goes out and the members who can manage it run to hear him, and those whose work prevents this will hear his words later, as committed to memory by those in attendance. People came running now. Because Walter John Harmon is so soft-spoken, it became apparent to the Elders at one point that a dispensation had to be made for a wireless microphone and a loudspeaker. As he stood in the Tabernacle in his characteristic way, with the fingertips of one hand touching the wooden table, and as he began to speak, as he would have even if there were no one there to listen, someone arrived with the speaker and set up the microphone on a stand in front of him. Even amplified, the prophet’s voice was barely more than a whisper. There was such a diffidence about him, for, as he had told us more than once, his was a reluctant prophecy. He had not sought it, or wanted it. Before God came to him in that cyclone, he had not even thought about religion. He had led an unruly life in his youth and had done many bad things, and he felt that perhaps that was why he’d been chosen—to demonstrate the mysterious greatness of God. What Walter John Harmon said on this morning was along these lines: Everywhere and at all times, numeration is the same for all mankind. This is because, no less than the earth or the stars, numbers are the expression of God. And so as they add and subtract and divide and multiply, as they combine and separate and conclude, they are the same always to the understanding of human beings, no matter who we are or what language we speak. God, in the form of numerical truth, will weigh the fruit on the scale, He will measure your height, He will give you the tolerances of your engine parts, and tell you the length of your journey. He will offer you numbers to go on forever without end, and we call this infinity because our mathematics count up to God. And when Jesus the Son of God died for our sins, He took to Himself the infinity of them, because He was of God and could die for the sins of the dead and the living and the unborn for generations to come. A prophet is not the Son of God, he is one of you, he is an ordinary man of remorse, like you, and so his numbers are no more infinite than the years of his life are infinite. He cannot die for mankind’s sins, he can only work to remove the sin of this or that soul, taking it into himself, and adding it into himself. Whatever faults you in the eyes of God—your carnal desires, your greed, your attachment to what is unworthy—your mortal prophet lifts from you and takes unto himself. And he does that until the weight of the numbers will bury him and he is welcomed in Hell. For he is an ordinary mortal, and if he takes on your sins they become his own, and it is to Hell he will go—not to God at his Right Hand but to the Devil in the depths of Hell’s eternal torment. “Only the adults purified by this prophecy will join the virgin children in the Holy City to come,” Walter John Harmon said. “And I will not be among them.” There was consternation at those words. We knew that because the Transference of Sin was the key to his teaching Walter risked exclusion from the Holy City. We had discussed this at our Meetings. The prophecy was Jesus-like but not Jesus, it was Moses-like but not Moses. Yet to hear it put in mathematical terms was shocking—people stood and cried out, because now Walter John Harmon was speaking of something as incontestable as a sum, as measurable as a weight or a volume, and the reality of such a cut-and-dried formulation seemed almost too much for us to bear. He did not walk away but looked over us with a faint smile on his lips. Was he suggesting that his doom was imminent? His blond and graying hair was tied this morning into a ponytail, which made him seem younger than his thirty-seven years. And at this moment his pale-blue eyes were those of a youth unaware of the tragedy of his life. As he stood and waited, the members were slowly calmed by his silence. We went to him and knelt and kissed his robe. Perhaps I was the only one this day to feel that his words were a personal communication. They seemed to be responding to my torments, as if, having intuited my reluctance to seek his counsel, Walter John Harmon had chosen this way to remind me of his truth and to restore the strength of my conviction. But that was the effect, always, after all, for the power of his word was in its uncanny precise application to whatever had been in your own mind, though you might not have before realized it. All who heard him this day knew the truth of his prophecy and the resolution and peace of surrendering to it. I felt once again secure in the privilege of the Seven Attainments. I loved Walter John Harmon. How then could I fault my wife’s love for him? A week or so later, I dressed for the outer world and drove one of our S.U.V.s to the state courthouse in Granger, a trip of some sixty miles. Whenever I walked into a courthouse now, I felt a great unease, as an alien in a strange land. Yet I had passed the bar exams of three contiguous states and had spent my adult life in the general practice of law, and so there was, simultaneously, a professional sense of belonging to such buildings as this old red stone horror with its corner cupolas, which dominated the square at the city’s center. It spoke to me as the native architecture of my own American past, and when I climbed the worn steps and heard my heels clicking on the floor of the entry hall I had to remind myself that I was an envoy from the future, about to address in their own vocabulary the denizens of the dark ages of secular life. This was to be a hearing before an Administrative Judge. The State Commissioner of Education had moved to suspend the Community’s license to school its children. A failure to comply with the statutes requiring mandatory literacy for every child was said to be grounds for a suspension. We were met not in a courtroom but in a room used mostly for jury empanelling in tort cases. It had big windows and dark-green shades pulled against the morning sun. The State had a trio of lawyers. The Judge sat behind another table. There were chairs around the walls for spectators—all filled. As far as I knew, there had been no public announcement of this morning’s hearing. A couple of policemen stood by the doors. The State argued that in using only the Book of Revelation to teach our children to read and write and, further, that in permitting them ever after to read nothing else than the Book of Revelation, or write nothing but from its passages, we were in default of the literacy statutes. The distinction was made as between education and indoctrination and that the latter as practiced by our cult (I rose to object to that derogatory label) contravened the presumption of literacy as a continuing process, generating ever-widening reading experiences and access to information. Whereas in our close-ended pedagogy, when one text and one text only was all the child was going to read, or recite, or intone, or chant forever after, the open-ended presumption of literacy was negated. The child would learn the text by heart and by rote repeat it with no further call on linguistic skills. I argued that literacy had no such open-ended presumption, it merely meant the ability to read—that when the State’s own inspectors had sat in on our first- and second-grade classes they had been satisfied that the principles of reading and writing were being taught, in terms of word recognition and phonetics, spelling and grammar, and that it was only when they had discovered, in the upper grades, that the Book of Revelation was the children’s sole reading material that they had found the Community at fault. Yet the children as taught by us are, in fact, able to read anything and are literate. Because we direct their reading and contemplation to the sacred text that is the basis of our beliefs and social organization, the Commissioner would impinge on our right of free religious expression, as set forth in the First Amendment. Every religion teaches its tenets from one generation to the next, I said. And every parent has the right to raise his child according to his beliefs. That is what the parents of our Community were doing and had every right to do, whereas the State’s claim of failed literacy was, on the face of it, an attempt to interfere with a minority’s religious practice of which it does not approve. The Judge ordered a suspension of our license, but declared at the same time that, the issues being substantive, he would defer his order so as to allow time for a court challenge. It was what I had expected. The lawyers and I shook hands, and that was it. But as I was leaving the room one of the spectators stopped me, an older man, with gnarled hands and a cane. You are working for the Devil, sir, he said. Shame on you, shame, he called after me. And then, in the corridor, a reporter I recognized was at my side, walking with me at my pace. Playing the freedom-of-religion card, eh, Counsellor? You know, they’ll really be down on you now. Studies, tests, videotapes, school records. Process of discovery. Nice to see you, I said. Anyway, you bought yourself six months. Six more months of doing what you do. Except, of course, if your boy is nailed before then. Christ was nailed, I said. Yeah, the reporter said, but not for having a Swiss bank account. I was as relieved to get back to the great valley as a soldier is to get back to his own lines. There was a lovely sense of bustling anticipation as the weekend approached: we were to have an Embrace. This was a once-a-month occasion when we received the visitors who had heard of us, and made inquiries, or had perhaps attended one of Walter John Harmon’s outside Meetings and found themselves interested enough to spend the day with us. They parked their cars at the Gate and were brought up by hay wagon. In our early days, we didn’t think of security. Now we copied down driver’s licenses and asked for signatures and the names of family members. On this Saturday morning in May, perhaps two dozen people arrived, many with children, and we greeted them with heartfelt smiles and coffee and cake under the two oak trees. I was not on the Hospitality Squad, but Betty was. She knew how to make people feel comfortable. She was pretty and compassionate, and altogether irresistible, as I well knew. She could immediately spot the most needful tender souls and go right to them. Of course, no one who appeared on these days was not needful or they wouldn’t have come. But some were skittish or melancholic or so on the edge of despair as to be rudely skeptical. In the end, no one could withstand the warmth and friendliness of our Embrace. We treated all newcomers like long-lost friends. And we knew how to keep them busy. There was the tour of the residences and the main house, where the children put on a sing. And there was the Enrobing. All the guests were given the muslin robe to wear over their clothes. This had the effect of delighting them as a game would delight them, but it also acclimated them to our appearance. We didn’t seem so strange then. Several long refectory tables were brought out from the carpentry shop, and the guests helped lay the cloths and carry out the bowls and platters with all the wonderful foodstuffs—the meat pies, the vegetables from our gardens, the breads from our bakery, the pitchers of cool well water and homemade lemonade. All the children sat down together at their tables, and all the adults at theirs, there in the warm sun. Every guest was placed between two members, with another directly across. And our Elder Sherman Beasley stood who had a naturally booming voice and he said grace, and everyone tucked in. It was such a beautiful day. I was able to sit in my place at the end of one of the long tables and forget for a while the threats to our existence and feel blessed to be here under a blue sky and to feel the sun on my face as God’s warmth. The conversation was lively. We were instructed to try to answer every question as diplomatically as possible. We were not to give doctrine or theology—only the Elders were entrusted to do that. A shy young woman on my right asked me why she had not seen any dogs in our Community. She was physically unprepossessing, with thick glasses, and she held herself on the bench as if to take up as little space as possible. This is sort of like a big farm, she said in her thin voice, and I’ve never been on a farm that didn’t have a dog or two. I told her only that dogs were unclean. She nodded and thought awhile and after a sip of lemonade she said, Everyone here is so happy. Do you find that odd? Yes, sort of. I couldn’t help smiling. We are with Walter John Harmon, I said. After lunch came our big surprise. We took everyone to the West Section, where, on a pre-laid concrete base, a house was going up for a recently sworn-in couple. The framing was done, and now, as everyone sat in the grass and watched, we men arose and, under the guidance of our carpenters, some of us went to work on the board-and-batten siding, while others were up on the roof beams, laying out the planking, and the skilled among us were fitting out the doors and the windows. Of course, none of the inside finishing would be done that day, but the thrill our guests had was in seeing so many of us making such quick work of building a home. It was a lesson without words. In fact, it was a kind of performance, because we had built the identical home many times over and each man knew what he had to do and where each nail went. There was a natural music to all the hammering and sawing and hauling and grunting, and we could hear our audience laugh and occasionally applaud with delight. At the end, as we all stood by, Elder Manfred Jackson presented a scroll to the new first-floor occupants, the Donaldsons, a gray-haired couple, who held hands and wept. After the Donaldsons were embraced by several members and brought to sit down among them, Elder Jackson turned to the visitors and explained what they had witnessed: they had witnessed the Third Attainment. Manfred Jackson was our only black Elder. He was an imposing figure, tall, his shoulders as squared as a young man’s, though he was in his eighties. His hair was white, and he wore the muslin robe like a king. With the Third Attainment, he said, these communicants of the Unfolding Revelation have forsworn all their personal property and given their wealth to the prophet. The Third Attainment is a considerable step up, for it is no small matter to abjure the false values of the world and rise from its filth. The prophet teaches us that there are seven steps to God-worthiness. Ours will be the kingdom of the chaste and the absolved, because whatever is ours, whatever we possess, whatever we think we cannot do without, we give to the prophet as his burden. He has brought us to live apart from the clamor and lies of the unbelieving. We wear his muslin to declare ourselves in transit. We live in homes to be blown away in the tornado of God. Manfred Jackson pointed out over the valley where the Holy City would descend. We wait upon the glory that needs no sun, he said. All this time, Walter John Harmon had not been seen. As the day went on, heads turned this way and that, as our guests wondered where was the man who had drawn them here in the first place. By midafternoon, all the organized events, the choir recital, the walking tour of the sacred land, and so on, were concluded, and the visitors began to think of leaving. We had collected their muslin robes as if to give them leave to depart. They were indecisive. Some of their children were still playing with ours. The parents were looking for someone to make the first move toward the hay wagons. In the meantime, we Elders and members continued to walk with them and express pleasure at their coming, gradually drifting with them back toward the Tabernacle. We knew what to expect but we let them discover for themselves the prophet sitting quietly there beside the wooden table. A child saw him first and called out, and it was the children who ran ahead, their parents following, and a murmur of awe went through them as they slowly gathered in the grass and looked upon Walter John Harmon. This was always a thrilling moment for me, a culmination of the day’s Embrace. See? I wanted to call out, Do you see?, a great surge of pride filling my breast. The prophet’s custom was to speak to the visitors, but this day he was lost in thought. His eyes were lowered. He sat slightly forward in the chair, one ankle tucked behind the other and his hands folded in his lap. His feet were bare. People settled down in the grass waiting for him to speak, and even the children grew quiet. The ground was cool. The afternoon sun was beginning to throw shadows, and a small breeze blew across the grass and played in the hair of the prophet. More and more members joined us, and there was absolute silence. Betty was suddenly beside me, dropping to her knees, and she took my hand and squeezed it. Minutes passed. He said nothing. The silence passed the point of our uneasiness or expectation and became significant. A great peace entered me, and I listened to the breeze as if it were a language, as if it were the language of the prophet. When a cloud passed over the sun, I saw the moving shadow on the ground as his writing. It was as if his silence had been transmuted to the language of the pure world of God. It said that all would be well. It said that suffering would cease. It said that our hearts would be healed. As the silence went on, it became so unendurably beautiful that people began to weep. Someone stepped past me and went to the prophet, as he sat there in his impassive loneliness. It was one of the visitors, a chubby blond child who couldn’t have been more than fifteen or sixteen. She lay down before Walter John Harmon and, curling herself into a fetal position, she touched her forehead to his feet. Six families among the visitors that day would pledge to the nonresidential tithing that is the First Attainment. But as our Community continued to grow, in a kind of perverse linkage, the attentions of a vindictive world were growing, too. Unfortunately, one of the registrants at the Embrace turned out to be a columnist from a Denver newspaper, who must have got in under an assumed identity. She described the events of the day accurately enough—such was her craftiness—but the tone of the piece was condescending, if not contemptuous. I could not understand why a columnist would want to come all the way from Denver to sneer at us. The column was not libellous in the legal sense, but I felt personally betrayed when I recognized from the columnist’s photo the unprepossessing young woman with thick glasses who had sat next to me at the midday luncheon and asked how everyone could be so happy. How underhanded she had been, and with such animosity in her mousy being. At a steering-committee meeting, the Elders Imperatived that the monthly Embraces should thenceforth be limited to families with children. I thought, given the needful of this world, that such a restriction was unfortunate, but the fact was that we were beginning to feel embattled. Allegations that we were all familiar with, having heard them many times over, were regularly communicated to us—by relatives, friends, or professional contacts on the outside—as if we had to be enlightened: Your prophet is an alcoholic. He abandoned a wife and child. He has grown rich at your expense. How could any of this have been news to us, inasmuch as our prophet was what, in our entirety, we had been? As Walter John Harmon took our evil unto himself, we had emerged newborn, with our addictions, our concupiscence, and our depthless greed lifted from us. His life was no secret. Every moment of it was a confession. But, as the outer world was as darkly inverted as the negative of a photograph, so was its logic. Each instance of bad publicity seemed to encourage another suit or investigation. Elder Rafael Altman, our C.P.A., informed us one morning that the I.R.S. had applied for a court order to subpoena the Community books. One of our lawyers was dispatched to apply for an injunction. Those others of us with skills still practiced on the outside met in extraordinary session with the Elders to come up with some over-all strategy for dealing with an increasingly impinging world. Up to this point we had met all bad publicity with a pious silence. Now we decided that, for the prophet’s sake, we must speak out on his behalf, we must give witness. We would not proselytize but we would respond. Judson Berglund, a high Attainist who before coming to us had run his own public-relations firm in California, had the Imperative to organize this effort. When a national newsweekly questioned the miracle of the Fremont, Kansas, tornado, Berglund saw to it that they printed Elders’ testimony in their Letters to the Editor. An attack by a well-known anticultist we boldly duplicated on our Web site, along with the countervailing responses of dozens of our members. And so on. It only became us, though, to respond to everything patiently, resolutely, and in the spirit of forgiveness. Walter John Harmon was typically stoic about the problems mounting up, but as the summer drew to an end and the leaves of the oak trees began to turn he seemed more and more withdrawn, as on that day of the Embrace. He seemed irritated that nothing he did went unnoticed, as if our devotedness were pressing on him. Yet he was called by God to have no private life, no private feelings, and so we worried about him. Our joyful life of peace and reconciliation, the exultant knowledge infused in all our beings of an exquisite righteousness in the sight of God, and the prayerful anticipation of the coming to our green earth of God’s Holy City was shadowed now by our concern for the spirit of His prophet. When the children sang he was inattentive. He took long walks alone in the holy site. I wondered if it was possible that the weight of our sins had already become too burdensome for his mortal soul. What I remember now is Walter John Harmon standing with my wife, Betty, in the orchard above the Tabernacle on a chilly gray afternoon in October. Clouds dark with rain sailed through the sky. A wind blew. The orchard trees were only three or four years old, the apple, pear, and peach trees not much higher than a man. Only the apple trees were in fruit now, and on this windy gray day, as Betty’s charges ran about picking apples off the ground or reaching for them on the lower branches, I watched her hold an apple out to Walter John Harmon. He took her wrist in his hand and leaned forward and bit into the apple she held. Then she took a bite, and they stood looking into each other’s eyes as they masticated. Then they embraced, and their robes, whipped by the wind, clung to their shapes, and I heard the children laughing and saw them running in circles around my wife and Walter John Harmon in their embrace. Some mornings after this, members who had gone to pray noticed a robe lying on the ground beside the Tabernacle table. It was his, the prophet’s. We knew that because, for ceremonial occasions, he wore not muslin but linen. Now it lay as if he had dropped it at his feet and walked away. The latchkey was still on the table, but the white stone was on the ground. The Elders were quickly summoned to study the scene. Carpenters placed stanchions around the site so that the gathering members would not disturb anything. Efforts were made to locate Walter John Harmon. We had never ventured past his front door. This was now found to be open. Inside, the place was a shambles. Empty liquor bottles, broken dishes. His closet was empty. Down at the Gate, someone reported that the Hummer was gone. At noon, with all work stopped, the Elders announced to the stunned Community that Walter John Harmon was no longer among us. There was absolute silence. Elder Bob Bruce said that the Elders would convene shortly to make a determination as to the meaning of the prophet’s disappearance. He led us in prayer and then urged everyone to go back to their tasks. The teachers were told to take their children back to their classrooms, but as everyone dispersed one group of children stood where they were, there being no teacher to lead them. These were Betty’s charges. Her puzzled colleagues took the children in hand. Everyone was distracted, unsettled. I could have told them all that the prophet was gone when, the night before, I heard Betty rise from her bed, dress, and slip out the door. I listened and, in a while, in the darkness, I heard through the clear cold night the distant sound of an engine turning over, revving up. When it was discovered that the prophet had left with my wife, I was called before the Elders. I was invited to join them in their councils. Perhaps they believed that the cuckolded husband was enlightened, as they were not. Perhaps they thought that he was important in other ways. Surely the challenge to no member’s faith could have been greater than the challenge to mine, and if I could forbear and sing the praises of God, who would not sing with me? Whatever their reasoning, I took solace in their dispensation. My personal grief was subsumed. For the sake of my sanity, I wanted to find resolution and strength from this crisis. But I also understood quite clearly and unemotionally that were I to think of Betty’s betrayal with a forgiving spirit, and concentrate on its larger meaning, I would both ease my heart and put myself forward in the minds of the Elders as an exemplar of our Ideals. In a community such as ours one’s moral currency may someday be exchanged for an executive role. The discussion went on for three days. I spoke with increasing confidence and have to admit that I had no small part in the deliberations. We came to the following consensus: Walter John Harmon had done what was both required and foreordained by the nature of his prophecy. Not only had he forsaken us who had loved him and depended upon him by running off with one of the purified wives; he had also cast doubt upon the central tenet of his teaching. What further proof did we need of the truth of his prophecy than his total immersion in sin and disgrace? It was thrilling. Elder Al Samuels, a tiny, bent-over octogenarian with the piping, scratched voice of the very old, was also the most philosophically inclined. He said that we were confronted with the beautiful paradox of a prophecy fulfilling itself by means of its negation. Elder Fred Sanders, known and loved for his ebullience, stood up and shouted, Glory be to God for our blessed prophet! We all stood and shouted Hallelujah! But while all of this was being worked out the Community languished. There was a good deal of crying and wandering about listlessly on the part of many. People could not do their work. Extra prayer sessions were called but went sparsely attended. And a few of the members, poor souls, even packed their meagre belongings and walked down the road to the Gate, heedless of all pleas. I think that is how word got out about our situation—through our dispirited defectors. It did not help that a TV news broadcast showed a picture of the Community from a helicopter flying over us, while an announcer spoke of us as collectively duped, robbed of our estates, and left humiliated and penniless in the middle of nowhere. It was time to act. On the advice of Judson Berglund, who had so far managed our public relations effectively, a great celebration was prepared, with music from our string musicians and tables of good food and a goodly supply of our ceremonial wine. Work and school were suspended for the people of the Community to gather and be together. Thanks be to God, the weather softened into one of those October days when the sun, low in the sky, casts a golden patina over the land. Yet the sense of irresolution, of bewilderment, did not entirely lift. People wanted to hear the Elders. I noticed that some of the children had sought out their natural parents and now clung to them. After lunch, the musicians retired, and everyone gathered before the Tabernacle. The Seven Elders arranged themselves on wooden chairs, facing the assemblage. One by one, they rose to speak. Their pronouncement was along the following lines: The prophet has all but warned us that this would come to pass. He said that he would not be among the blessed who would reside in the Holy City. That he has gone so soon is a stunning blow to those of us who loved him, as we all loved him, but we must love him more now that he has done this thing. That is our Imperative. We cannot question what he has done, for it is nothing else but his final sacrifice. He has taken into himself our wealth, our concupiscence, all the sins of the world that we had accumulated, and returned with them to the world, that we might be made righteous in the eyes of God. Nor should we mourn him: if we live as we have lived, and learn as we have learned, wherever he is, will he not still be in our midst? For this reason, from this day forward, we Elders will speak in his voice. We will say his saying and think his thinking. And the prophecy that was is the prophecy that is, as we anticipate the eternality of our life to come. For he has cast the stone down, and the key is here on the table that will open up the door to the Kingdom of God. And when the Four Horsemen come riding over the land and the plagues rise like a miasma from the earth, and the sun turns black and the moon blood red, and when firestorms engulf whole cities, and the nuclear warriors of the world consume one another, the prophet shall be with us, and amidst the carnage and devastation we will be untouched. For God came to earth one day as a whirlwind that spun around this humble man, whose goodness and moral stature only God could see to be His prophet. And we who are your Elders saw it with our own eyes. And we tell you that when God comes down again He will not be a whirlwind, He will be the resplendent self-illuminating city of His glory and His peace, and we who have lived to the prophecy of Walter John Harmon will walk down these pastures and reside there forever. The Elders were effective. I could see resolution firming up in the postures and facial expressions of the members. Many glances were sent my way. I found myself basking in the reflected glory of my faithless wife who had been chosen by Walter John Harmon to join him in the ultimate sin, his betrayal of the Community. A day or two later, when one of the women went into the prophet’s house to clean it up, she noticed something under a chair that had been overlooked in all the excitement: a pencil. Our prophet had never wanted anything written. The Elder who was summoned discovered something else: in the fireplace, half buried in the ashes, were three sheets of paper that had curled and were slightly charred on the edges but still, miraculously, intact. On these pages, Walter John Harmon had laid out plans for a wall to be built around our Community. He’d provided sketches and measurements. The Gate down by the highway was to be drawn back to just a hundred and ten yards from our buildings. The wall was to be of stone three cubits thick and four cubits high. The stones were to be gathered from the pasture and from brooks and streams. They were to be bonded with a cement mixture whose proportions he had carefully indicated. And then a cryptic sentence written at the bottom of the last page of instructions added to the mystery: This wall for when the time comes, is what it said. Clearly this was a discovery of unsettling magnitude. It brought forth only questions. A wall of stone did not accord with the Ideal of impermanence that had guided all our previous construction. What did that mean? Did it amount to a new Ideal? And when would what time come? But he had thrown the plans into the fire. Why? We simply didn’t know what to do about these plans. Had they not been discarded, almost certainly they would constitute a Demand. The pages were preserved in a clear plastic folder and put in the safe of the business office pending further study. In the meantime, we had to sort out our over-all situation. We had been left with very little operating capital. All surrendered estates of members were made liquid through a succession of trusts, and routinely placed in the prophet’s name in several numbered Swiss bank accounts to protect against legal incursion. He had personally dispensed sums as they were applied for by our financial Elder Rafael Altman. We grew our own food and clothed ourselves humbly but we were in arrears for the material costs of our building program, which had gone on more or less continuously as new members arrived. Perhaps we would not have many more new members for a while. But several of our parcels of valley land for the descent of the Holy City were heavily mortgaged. And were we to lose even one of the standing civil suits against us we would be terribly vulnerable. As the weeks went by, it became apparent that we faced a long cold winter of untold hardship. Our infirmary, with its one doctor and two nurses, tended to a host of ailing children. There were a number of cases of flu. Elder Al Samuels succumbed to pneumonia and we buried him in the rise behind the orchard. The little bent-over man with the piping voice had been well loved, and the fact that he was almost ninety when he passed was no consolation to the Community. My own sadness was only slightly appeased when the surviving Elders elevated me to their company. We need younger blood, Elder Sanders said to me, as he gripped my arm. Our witness is passed to you by decree. It is now January of the New Year and I write secretly at night in the privacy of my house. Perhaps, as the prophet says, the time for documentation comes only when the world overtakes us. So be it. This has not to do with a loss of faith—mine is strong and does not give way. My belief in Walter John Harmon and the truth of his prophecy does not falter. Yes, I say to the skeptics: It is entirely unlikely that someone as uneducated and hapless and imperfect as this simple garage mechanic can have designed such an inspired worship. And only the sacred touch of God upon his brow can explain it. The Community as it huddles on these snowy plains is smaller, but by that fact tighter and more resolute, and we gather each morning to thank God for our joyous discovery of Him. But the world is overwhelming, and, if we do not survive, at least this testimony, and others that may be written, will guide future generations to our faith. Given the general age and infirmity of the Elders, I now function as the managing partner functions in a law office. And Walter John Harmon has come to live through me and will speak in my voice. I have studied the three pages of his plans and I have made the decision that in the first days of thaw we will send our people out to the holy pastures to collect the rocks and boulders for our wall. And one of the newer members, a retired Army colonel to whom I’ve given the plans, has gone out and paced the land. He says it is amazing that our prophet has no military experience. For, as designed, these breastworks take every advantage of the terrain and give us positions for a devastating enfilade. We are assured of a clear and unimpeded field of fire. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Dick	The evening sun was a giant peach in the rearview mirror, apocalyptic and gaseous as it burned toward the horizon. The daily paradox of Los Angeles: toxic beauty. But, for once, Ann Ponders was grateful for the pollution; it capped an argument that she had been making for months. For clean air, for their health, she told herself, they were leaving the only home that her children had ever known. Her husband and son had taken the family’s first car early that morning. But then, moments before Ann was to drive the second car away, the cat had escaped, and she and her eighteen-year-old daughter, Lizzie, had had to wait in the hot empty house for the fickle creature to return. All day they’d sat on the tiled floor in the vacant dining room, or on the kitchen counters, air-conditioning disabled, refrigerator door hanging open, fan inoperable. The outside generator ran the pool, sprinkler, and security systems, but inside all was stultifyingly dead. Every few minutes they hauled themselves up from their slump on the floor to make another useless perimeter sweep. “Kitty, kitty, kitty?” one or the other of them had been calling for hours, circling the yard, the culvert, the street. Neither cared for the cat—she peed on pillows, sharpened her claws on pants legs, licked herself neurotically—but Cole, the eleven-year-old, who’d ridden away with his father at dawn, needed Winky. Taking Winky the thousand miles east to their new home, their hideout in the hills, was non-negotiable. “Hate that fucking cat,” Ann murmured; the only thing saving the animal was the image of it curled in the armpit of her sleeping son. She hated a few other things, too, such as the way she looked in shorts and a tank top, especially compared with Lizzie, who looked beautiful in whatever she wore. What consolation did age provide? Ann wondered. Bragging rights for having arrived at forty-five or sixty or ninety-nine? You didn’t come through intact, that much was clear. Moreover, the interesting things happened early, a piece of information that Ann was consciously, uncharitably, withholding from her daughter. Packing up their belongings, she’d found crayoned pictures that Lizzie had drawn for her, covered with hearts and a round-headed tribe of people with drunken smiley faces, pledging exclamatory, boundless love. The toddler who’d given herself to those drawings was gone, her features turned angular, her thoughts sour and secret. Easy to love children, harder to love grownups. When Lizzie was only fourteen, Ann had been shocked to discover that she shaved her pubic hair. At fifteen, Lizzie had filled her notebooks with stick figures having scary sex, and then there were the sickening song lyrics that pulsed from her bedroom stereo, the “fuck me” and “cunt” she’d markered onto her shoes. Now, unbidden and often, Ann was visited by one or another of these images, a slide show starring her sunny child who had become an alarming adult. The only help was to picture her boy, Cole, walking toward her with, say, a cookie in each hand—one for himself, one for her. Lizzie’s cell phone tweetered in her hip pocket and she studied its pink face plate nonchalantly. “Grandma,” she told Ann. When Lizzie raised her eyebrows and held out the ringing phone, Ann shook her head and stepped back, as if her mother could reach through the line for her. “I’m not here,” she said. Lizzie engaged the line and listened. “Neither is Grandma,” she said. “She must have called by accident. Grandma,” she yelled into the phone. “Pick up, Grandma. She’s in the cafeteria,” she told Ann. “I can hear silverware. Old people muttering.” Even if Ann’s mother had called on purpose, she probably wouldn’t have remembered why. Alzheimer’s had been stealing her for years now, and the collapse of the World Trade Center towers eleven months earlier seemed to have taken whatever was left. “I used to live in New York,” she’d said that day, those words and no others, a refrain to accompany the repeating television footage, a refrain that was perhaps her last coherent response to the world—a defense mechanism of the mind, a pressure valve in the heart. She’d had to be moved from one part of her assisted-living facility to another, demoted to the wing where the rooms were more like cells and the assistants more like wardens—wardens or puppeteers, whose patients were wooden dolls that it was their job to animate. Ann’s mother lived this sentence, this shapeless continuous performance, occasionally making random accidental calls, as a fleeting piece of will or inadvertency exerted itself. Ann could leave L.A. now because her mother would never know that she was gone. “Or maybe it’s bingo,” Lizzie was saying, tuned to the tabletop or the linty interior of her grandmother’s handbag. “Grandma is telling Mrs. Carlyle to stop scaring her.” “Mrs. Carlyle is dead,” Ann said. “Your grandmother always thinks someone is scaring her. It used to be me.” “How?” “By being myself.” “Same way I scare you,” Lizzie said cheerfully. “I guess.” While packing, Ann had also uncovered an old cache of drug paraphernalia—stale pot, brass pipe, razor, and rolled dollar bill—duct-taped inside her own bathroom cupboard. Her clever, duplicitous daughter knew that her parents would never think to look right under their own noses, this girl who also was prone to lose and forget things. “About your grandm—” “Jesus! I’m going to visit. Whose speed dial did she just hit, anyway? You’ve reminded me eight million times. Why do you have to endlessly repeat things, like I’m an idiot?” Lizzie tucked her cell phone under her chin as she reached around to scratch her back, the pretty knob of her shoulder thrust forward, her halter riding up over the hollow stretch of her belly, the whole smooth suit of skin she wore without thinking. She clapped the phone shut like a castanet. “Goodbye, Grandma. Can we go sit in McDonald’s?” “I don’t want to miss Winky,” Ann said. But, really, she just didn’t want to be out in public showing so much of her own flesh. She’d planned to be hidden in the car all day, the car that was old and likely to overheat, stuffed full of breakables and a yowling cat in a box who would dictate drive-through food and quick pit stops—a series of factors that had led her to her regrettably skimpy outfit. Wife-beater, her shirt was called; fringed cutoffs. “Can I go sit in McDonald’s?” Lizzie wasn’t being rude, Ann reminded herself; she was just asking a question. If Cole had asked, she’d have let him go, Cole, who would have returned bearing an order of fries or an apple pie for his mother. Why always this flare of anger with her daughter? “Go ahead,” she said, and Lizzie walked away, swinging her hips, the lovely thinness she had accomplished through starvation and speed more evidence of that plaguing paradox. You could see the McDonald’s sign from the front door of the house, Toys R Us behind it—Mobil, Exxon, Wendy’s, competing like the waving hands in a class of eager children. At Ann’s future home, in Colorado, there would be no plastic signs in sight. Never again from her yard would she hear the muffled sound of a genderless voice at a drive-through intoning, “Please pull forward.” Cold water still sputtered from the bathtub spigot, tepid and chlorine-scented and already vaguely rusty. Ann sat on the rim dousing her legs. When a knock came—the doorbell was electric, she reminded herself—she had an absurd apprehension that her mother had somehow, in record-shattering time, finagled her way over here from the center, with some cabbie or unwitting do-gooder who’d found her in bedclothes on the street, waving her bingo card. How did she continue to remember Ann’s address when she often couldn’t remember Ann herself? When she did remember—the truth of her situation dawning, however briefly, upon her—she was furious with Ann, as if a colossal conspiracy had been cooked up behind her back. And so it had, Ann thought. But soon her mother’s forgetfulness returned—like a painkiller kicking in—and she’d go back to playing the coy dingbat, the innocent coquette from the cocktail parties of Ann’s youth. The knock sounded again; more likely it was Lizzie at the door, needing cash. Ann vowed not to get mad at her daughter, who, staying behind to attend U.C.L.A., would be charged with visiting her difficult, declining grandmother by herself. On the stoop, Ann found her son’s friend Dick. “Dick!” “Ma’am.” He looked not at her face but in a blinking circle around her, as if following the flying course of a gnat. His odd-shaped head showed the track lines of a recent buzz cut, a monthly ritual that his father executed in the family’s front yard. “I came to say goodbye to Cole,” he said diffidently. Dick never showed much life around adults, as if the effort would be a wasted one, or maybe he was afraid, the inherent dread that a smaller creature has of a larger one. Alone with Cole, however, he was a clown, silly and affectionate. Ann eavesdropped on them, touched by how they loved to laugh, how politely deferential they were with each other, butts wedged into one captain’s chair in front of the computer, drawing cartoons with their heads tipped together, building forts that featured not weapons but foodstuff and flashlights. “Watson,” they addressed each other in hissing British accents, partners in mystery and adventure. “Oh, Dick, I’m so sorry. Cole is gone!” Ann flushed—guilty, sorrowful. She’d engineered this separation of best friends. Subtly but relentlessly, slowly undermining her family’s connections to L.A., this last muddled and frightening year, nudging them off their foundations and onto the road, away. “Gone?” Dick said, his face falling. “I’m so, so sorry, Dick.” “Gone?” he repeated. Had Cole forgotten to say goodbye? Dick lived down the street. The two boys had come home from the hospital only a week apart; together, they’d pedalled their Big Wheels back and forth on the sidewalk as toddlers, then braved kindergarten with matching backpacks and lunchboxes. For years they’d gone around with their arms slung over each other’s neck. “We’re not gay,” they had informed Ann sincerely one day. “We’re like brothers.” When Dick called on the phone, he always announced himself: “Hello, this is Dick.” That name like a punch line, a throwback from the nineteen-forties: Dick and his sidekick, Jane, and their dog, Spot. The boys had been friends for years before Ann realized that her husband shared Dick’s full name. Richard, however, had never let anyone call him Dick. What had Dick’s parents been thinking? But Cole probably seemed like a strange name to Dick’s parents. Their bedraggled ranch house was surrounded by chain link, inside of which roamed two Rottweilers—“the living moat,” Dick’s father called them. These dogs would leap and froth when anyone approached the yard, eventually turning their ecstatic fury on each other, one chomping into the other’s throat until there was a whimpering retreat. In the house proper, Dick’s family bred Rottweilers; a litter was nearly always on the way or occupying a kids’ plastic play pool in the living room. The house smelled intensely, nauseatingly, of dog—Dick carried the gamy odor with him, on his clothes and in his hair. You could smell it on the pillow after he’d spent the night. His father, who insisted that all children call him “sir,” believed in discipline and respect, rules and belts. On the rare occasions when he, instead of one of Dick’s brothers, came to retrieve Dick, he stood rocking on his heels at the Ponderses’ front door, refusing in his clipped manner—“No, Ma’am”—the invitation to step inside, as if Ann had greeted him naked, holding a highball. Her easy willingness to allow him entry somehow violated protocol. She had no watchdog or fence; she didn’t even seem to realize that her husband wasn’t home. When the boys came tearing breathless from Cole’s room, a sober palm would be clamped onto Dick’s shoulder, followed by a command to thank Ann for her hospitality, and then the forced march home. Today she stared at the boy, aware that she would probably never see him again. “Do you want to come in, Dick?” But what for? She had no treats to offer, not even a chair to sit on. “No,” he said. “Thanks,” he added, pawing at the stoop with his feet. “Can I go up in the tree house?” he finally asked, rolling his gaze painfully to her face. “Of course!” Rather than come into the house, he squeezed along the side yard, beating through the unruly oleander. Ann followed from inside, watching at the kitchen window as he climbed the ladder. The boys had been born during the Gulf War. That was the safe topic that Ann could fall back on with Dick’s mother. Their politics were not the same—they knew to keep their husbands separated and not to mention the bumper stickers regarding guns on their respective vehicles—but biology had made them friends of a sort. Even as Ann gave birth, she had thought about some poor woman in Iraq having a baby. Bad enough to be in Los Angeles, ignored, as the entire maternity ward gathered around the television to watch the eerie green light of deployed Scud missiles. What if you were over there, hearing—feeling—them detonate? No matter where on the globe you lived, giving birth was fundamentally the same. Dick’s mother had four sons, Dick her youngest. The oldest had recently joined the Army, and Dick was supremely proud of that fact. His two other brothers—twins—were bullies, brats. But Dick was neither a bully nor a brat; like Cole, he was rangy, unathletic. They were children who deferred by instinct, not peacemakers but peacekeepers, knobby-kneed boys who had to be prompted to eat and encouraged to defend themselves against other children. Ann had liked to think that Dick found her home a respite, her family a good influence. And now he’d missed his chance to say goodbye. For half an hour, he sat dejected in the tree house, not even swinging his legs. Finally, he climbed down, squeezed back through the oleander, and was heading down the flagstones to the curb when Ann opened the front door. “Goodbye, Dick,” she called. He turned without stopping, his shoulders slumped, scuffing his feet in baggy pants that were far too big for him. This gang-inspired fashion statement was another on the list of Reasons to Leave L.A. “Your cat is dead,” he called back. His words, delivered in his typically uninflected way, took a moment to register. It was as if he were reporting that Ann had mail. “Dick,” she cajoled. He understood that she was questioning the truth of what he’d said; he had a history of telling outrageous lies—a habit, which he shared with Cole, of make-believe and stories. “Really,” he said flatly. “Look in your pool.” The air was glaringly, blindingly clear in Colorado; you had to wear sunglasses to step into it. Behind the Ponderses’ new house, the foothills began, meadowlarks calling out their exhaustive song, that insistent, badgering good will. Everywhere you wanted to go, you could walk or ride a bike. The dogs were variously sized but all golden, tails like happy flags. This was the other, better West, with its flagrant seasons—first the red and orange and yellow leaves, which fell, it seemed, in a single mad afternoon, and then the snow, days and days, layer upon layer, the little city become a smooth hibernating drift, punctuated by chimneys with their nostalgic puffs of smoke. The lack of man-made racket was sometimes eerie, as if the landscape were just waiting for something to happen. “Did we do the right thing?” Richard would ask, putting his hands tentatively on Ann’s shoulders. She would resist the impulse to shake them off, restrain the flash of impatience she felt: wasn’t it obvious, this beauty just outside their door? A tangible beauty, like hard candy, something you could bite. She wanted to ignore his real question, which was about the intangible, the baffling way in which his wife, without his permission or precise knowledge, had changed in recent years. He must have sensed that Ann’s love for him was gone; he was hoping to wait it out, or lure it home, or, best of all, to wake one morning and discover that this time had been merely a bad dream. “Of course we did the right thing,” she answered, if she answered. At Thanksgiving, Ann went by herself to the airport to meet the flight from L.A. She’d forgotten that you couldn’t greet people at the gates anymore, that you had to lurk by the baggage claim. She had pictured herself standing with open arms as her mother emerged panicked from the Jetway tunnel. But Lizzie arrived by herself. “Where’s Grandma?” Ann asked, her eyes casting over her daughter’s shoulder, searching among the throng of visiting mothers for that small lost one who was hers. Lizzie, hair bent at strange angles around her face, wore a peeved, defensive expression; she knew she was going to be blamed for something that wasn’t her fault. The plan, the careful set of directives that Ann had supplied to a dozen different people in L.A., were supposed to have resulted in Ann’s mother’s arriving in Colorado for Thanksgiving. “She bailed.” “What?” “I know, I know.” Lizzie gave her attention to the baggage conveyor belt, now honking, now disgorging luggage. “We’re at LAX, our bags are checked, we have a vodka for her nerves, then another for mine, then we’re in line at security—all this time she keeps calling me her abductor, but not like a paranoid wack job, like a joke, you know how she gets after vodka—then she takes one look at the guy putting his hand in people’s shoes and, voilà, she freaks.” Lizzie had herded Ann over to the belt as she talked, all the time watching for her suitcase. She bent now to retrieve a large boxy floral bag that Ann recalled from her own childhood. Her mother’s bag, indisputable—big enough to contain its owner. Tapestry, worn to threads at the corners, part of a set that had gone with her parents many times abroad, on ships and trains, Turkish cabs, South American buses, in a former gadabout life. “Why is your grandmother’s suitcase here?” “It was already checked. In my name. You carry it—it weighs hardly anything. God knows what she packed. She had Equal packets stuffed in all her pockets.” “Where is she now?” “At the center. I got her a cab. She was back safe in her room before the plane even took off. I called to make sure. Why do you always assume that I’m a complete idiot?” “I just don’t understand . . .” “Security is such a fucking hassle nowadays, and she was really pissing me off.” “Please don’t talk about your grandmother that way.” “I notice you’re not there to deal with her.” “I can’t believe you—” “Hey, Mom, you know what? No matter what I did, you would be mad right now. Think about it: if I come, you’re mad ’cause I left her. If I don’t come, you’re mad because, hey, it’s Thanksgiving, where’s the family?” Lizzie waited for argument, her eyes belligerent. But the words “left her” recalled for Ann that it was she, not her daughter, who had done this to her mother. She let the subject drop. Lizzie turned to heave her own suitcase off the belt and began dragging it ahead of Ann, as if she knew where the car was parked. “Dude!” Lizzie greeted her brother an hour and a half later, in Fort Collins. Unprompted, he threw his arms around her. “What’s with the outfit?” she asked. “It’s a uniform?” he said, looking doubtfully at his shirt. “I let you out of my sight for three months, you go geek.” He submitted happily as she untucked his shirttails and frowsed his hair. They had their own intimacy, Ann saw with a tender pang, one completely removed from her or their father. Richard was trying to catch her eye, to let her know that he saw it, too, but she wouldn’t look at him. She was training herself to scorn his collusion. But why? The children shared amused glances over the Thanksgiving table, cracking obscure jokes that seemed to be at their parents’ expense. Ann envisioned them as grownup siblings. This, perhaps, was the consolation she had been looking for, the knowledge that her children would remain loyal, phone each other from their dorm rooms and apartments, keep track and reminisce. Someday, she thought, they would be comparing notes about their parents, lodging their complaints. Their father, Cole would speculate, had always had a soft spot for Lizzie; Lizzie would laugh—she and Cole would be drinking beer at a bar or whispering in the kitchen of one of their homes while their children and spouses slept—reminding him that their mother had obviously preferred him. This would be after Ann and Richard were old, or maybe even dead, Ann thought. Neither age nor death seemed quite so formidable, seen in this light. She flushed when she thought of the secret she had kept for years now, her escape clause: she had given herself permission to divorce her husband when Cole graduated from high school. If she felt like divorcing him then, she would do it. If she left him, though, her children would be having a different conversation in that kitchen or bar she’d dreamed up. There would be no disagreement about whose fault a divorce was. “Doesn’t Lizzie look awfully thin?” Richard asked in a whisper, in bed. “Did you smell cigarettes on her?” His worries seemed so pale to Ann, so little, and so late. Their daughter was no longer theirs; the world had had its way with her. Ann’s anxiety had to do with Cole. What was Lizzie saying to him when Ann and Richard weren’t around? It wasn’t cigarette smoke that wafted worrisomely here but the whiff of L.A., that musk of volatile adolescence which had been let into the house. “Can I call Dick?” Cole asked Ann the Sunday after Thanksgiving, when Richard was driving Lizzie to the airport. While Ann skimmed the newspaper, Cole stared out the kitchen window into the dusk. His sister’s departure had no doubt contributed to his loneliness; all weekend she’d played her loud music and monopolized the second bathroom and shown him interesting Internet sites—then abruptly she had packed up her cosmetics and clothes and disappeared, leaving the house vibrantly still, the only sound the wet chugging of the dishwasher. “Why Dick?” Ann asked. “Never mind.” “No, it’s O.K. Call Dick.” Back in L.A., although they lived within shouting distance of each other, they’d had lengthy aimless telephone conversations, Cole pacing around the house, laughing and gesturing. Ann imagined him pacing through this new house, filling Dick in on all that was strange: home, school, weather. She had assured Cole before they moved that his real friends were ones he would keep all his life, no matter where he lived, friends who were more like family. Years from now, she’d told him, you’ll be calling Dick in the middle of the night just to chat. She had told him this, although she suspected that he would outgrow Dick. Dick would adopt the politics and values of his family, would follow in his oldest brother’s footsteps first and enlist in the military, and then later move into the blue-collar world of his father, who installed heaters and coolers in addition to breeding dogs. Meanwhile, Cole would go to college and graduate school; he cared too much about injustice for politics not to matter, and Dick’s conservative mind-set would bother him. Moving had allowed the break to seem like nobody’s fault, sad yet unavoidable. Not unavoidable, Ann scolded herself. She had insisted, she had cried, she had shamelessly exploited the national disaster to substantiate her fear, her conviction that they needed to retreat to higher ground, and her husband had finally acquiesced. “The important things,” Ann had assured Cole in L.A., “are coming with us.” “Not Lizzie,” he’d responded. “Not Grandma.” Like Cole, she still thought of L.A. as home. They held the configuration of their old house in their minds, as if they could return to it, sleep in its beds or boil water at the stove overlooking the window to the back yard. As if the cat would jump onto that windowsill, the way she often had, and press her dusty nose against the glass, leaving another in a long pattern of smudges. Ann passed her son the phone and noted how his fingers flew over the keypad, Dick’s number still a reflex of his hand. “This is Cole,” he said. “Is Dick there?” He paused, his eyebrows pinched. “Dick? It is? I don’t know, it didn’t sound like you. I guess.” He paused again. “O.K. Bye.” “That was the shortest call to Dick I ever heard. What happened?” “I don’t know.” Cole set the phone back in its cradle. “I don’t think that was Dick.” “Maybe one of the twins was pretending to be Dick?” “Probably.” Cole gave his mother a trembling look. “If it was Dick, he sounded weird.” “Weird how?” “Depressed. It didn’t sound like him at all.” “His voice could be changing.” “Yeah,” he said, unconvinced. Lizzie would have marvelled at such a phone call for a long time, turning it over with her mother, then phoning up other friends to analyze it ad nauseam, but Cole just wandered away, troubled and scowling. He had a stoic’s reserve, the sort that bred ulcers, migraines. Later, Ann would mention the call again, maybe when she was tucking him into bed, on her knees with her cheek next to his on the pillow. She would tell him to try calling Dick back in a week or so, that he’d probably been having a bad day or one of his brothers was playing a joke—either way, Cole could call again. She hadn’t told him that Winky was dead. Returning from McDonald’s, Lizzie had found Ann depositing the cat’s bloated body in the Dumpster out front. “Oh, my God! Well, you said you hated that eff-ing cat,” she said, sucking the last of her soda noisily up through a straw. Ann whirled on her. “You think that meant I wanted her dead?” “I’m just commenting.” “I don’t like your comment.” Ann wanted to slap some feeling into her daughter’s face. The cat had been spinning in one place in the pool, held there by the action of the filter. There was something scarily beautiful about the sight, the fluttering smoothness of the fur, the animal’s perfect weightless suspension and revolution. Remarkable that neither Ann nor Lizzie had noticed it before. Dick’s treetop view had been better than their ground-level one. They had agreed that it would be best to spare Cole the death of his pet. They’d say that the cat had simply not wanted to move, that she had chosen to stay in the neighborhood, that Lizzie would drive over and fill a food bowl every few days and keep them posted in Colorado. If Dick ever mentioned the dead cat, Ann decided, she’d deny it, reminding Cole what a liar Dick was known to be. “Hi, Ann, it’s Nancy,” the woman on the phone said. Her voice was weary and familiar, and Ann exclaimed, generically sociable, making small talk as she tried to figure out which Nancy it was. She knew three or four. Why would this Nancy assume that she was the only one? The longer they exchanged pleasantries—Was she settled in after the move? Did she miss L.A.? And how was Cole?—the stranger the conversation seemed. At what point would Ann confess that she had no idea whom she was talking to? Finally Nancy said, sighing, “I’m really calling to find out if Dick has tried to reach you.” Her voice instantly assumed a location and a body—overweight, red-headed Nancy, Ann’s former neighbor, with her brood of boys and dogs. “Dick?” “He’s run away.” “Oh, my Lord, Nancy. When?” “Three days ago. I thought maybe Cole would know something.” Ann took the phone with her to the window; she needed to find her boy. The yard at first seemed empty, nothing but snow and the things it covered, a slight wind lifting faint glittering waves of it. And then there he was, the sight of him allowing her to breathe once more, pulling a sled, hauling logs from one end of the yard to the other, big rubber snow boots weighing him to the ground. He was talking to himself, she saw, telling a story, lost inside it. This was the kind of thing that he and Dick had done together. Their alternative universe, ready-made and waiting. Ann’s eyes filled with tears; she could not bring up words. “Nancy,” she said. “I’m so sorry.” Sorry, and shamefully grateful, with her boy penned there in the yard. “He’s called us a couple of times, so we know he’s alive. We’re praying that he’s just blowing off steam.” Nancy sighed. “It’s been such a hard year for him, you know?” she went on pensively. “He started sixth grade at the middle school, and everything was different. You wouldn’t have recognized him, Ann. I mean, you know he’s always been kind of shy, but he turned plain sullen. He put on weight, got pimples, the usual stuff, and he wouldn’t joke around anymore.” “Poor guy,” Ann said softly, gazing at her own boy, with his flawless skin, his long, graceful hands. “And his critters started dying. The rats, the iguana, the lovebirds. I thought it was coincidence, but now I’m not so sure. I even found him pulling the legs off the lizards in the yard, like he thought they might grow back the way the tails do. But he knew better.” Nancy continued talking, citing her evidence with surprise in her voice, argument, even—as if she were making a case built on contradictions. It began with his separating himself from others, missing school to hang out at the Circle K, not speaking at home, painting his windows black—black! Hiding from his family in the overgrown culvert behind their house, that harsh place full of thistles and weeds and trash. Apparently, the news of Dick’s decline was something Nancy had already reported so many times that she had stepped beyond its initial impact. It was a story, one that she would probably be telling herself for the rest of her life, refashioning it as its ending became clearer. He had disappeared. He had been disappearing all year. She should have known, she would say. He was so quiet after he went to middle school. He’d started an awkward and unattractive puberty. He’d had a hard time making friends. He didn’t have any friends. He didn’t have any friends. “I don’t know how I’ll tell Cole,” Ann thought aloud, watching her son arrange the wood in the shape of a cabin at the other end of the yard, still talking to himself. He would abandon this habit, become self-conscious, probably within the next few months. It took a great deal of restraint not to drop the phone and run out and hold him against her—as if Dick might find him first and claim him. “I’m so glad that Cole didn’t answer the phone,” Nancy said. “I just couldn’t have talked to that sweet child.” She paused. “But maybe you could make sure he hasn’t heard from Dick?” While Cole stomped through the snow, Nancy berated herself, saying that she should have known how upset Dick was, that last day, by the way he’d walked through the puddles on the way to school, “letting all of that street . . . shit . . . get on him.” Ann was shocked. Not by the puddles—boys, puddles, what could be more predictable?—but by Nancy’s resorting to profanity. “He’s hiding somewhere, I know, and he’s afraid to come back.” His father’s wrath, Ann thought, his mother’s fear—the glory of his having inspired it, the awesomeness of its combined force. Nancy said, “I mean, he became obsessed with negative things—black windows and all those dead pets. When did he get so fascinated with . . . badness?” This made Ann recall Winky the cat, her black body twirling in the corner of the pool, the net extraordinarily heavy with its saturated load. Her neck had been broken by a dog, Ann had told her daughter, inventing an explanation, a chase among members of the natural order that had ended tragically. “Please pray for us,” Nancy said in closing. It cost Ann nothing to agree. Richard, listening later to the news about Dick, was stunned. He had a hard time assimilating information that he didn’t want to believe. It was as if his loyal heart had thrown up a shield around him, fending off the darker impulses. She had not done what she’d told Nancy she would do—ask Cole if he’d heard from his friend. She waited until her son was asleep, until she and Richard were in bed. Then, when he began stroking her breasts, a preamble to sex, she stopped him with the news. His hand froze, moved back to his own chest, Richard immobilized, speechless. “Those poor people,” he said finally. “Those poor, poor people.” He disagreed with her plan to withhold the news from Cole: he might know something crucial. What if the situation were reversed, he said, wouldn’t Ann want Nancy to ask Dick? “But Cole would never run away,” Ann insisted. “And I can tell by looking at him that he hasn’t heard from Dick. He’d tell me.” They lay in bed, talking quietly. Aside from issues relating to the children, they didn’t spend much time, anymore, talking. “You know what else, Rich? I think maybe our moving played some part in Dick’s changing. I mean, the cat was the first dead-animal incident. It was Dick who told me.” “What cat?” Ann closed her mouth, realizing for the first time that the kind lie she’d told Cole the summer before had not been corrected for her husband. Even Lizzie had heard a truer version of events than Richard had. “Winky,” she said. “On moving day.” Now she explained, a revelation that made him angry with her, surprisingly angry. He rose up on an elbow and looked down on her. Why would she treat him like a child? he asked. Why wouldn’t she tell him this? “I don’t know,” she said, miserable. He just wasn’t part of her inner life; it was as if she’d already started to leave him, packing herself up in preparation, one secret at a time. Richard lay awake beside her. Then he suddenly rolled out of bed, and Ann heard him go into Cole’s room down the hall. When she got there, he was gently but insistently rousing their boy. “Son?” he said. “Don’t!” Ann said. “He needs his sleep.” But Richard would not be dissuaded. When Cole finally woke, he told them that he hadn’t spoken to Dick since that last weird phone call. “Weird phone call?” Richard demanded, as if Ann had withheld that from him, too. Her son sat sleepily awestruck, a frown gathering on his forehead. “Where’s Dick?” he asked. It became a nightly query. Where was Dick? Now, as bedtime approached, Ann felt Cole’s terror growing. In the dark, he imagined that the worst had happened to his friend. He imagined his worst, Dick’s mother imagined her worst, everyone suffering a private fictional nightmare. At bedtime, Ann crawled in beside him in the bottom bunk, lying there until he fell asleep, assuring him that Dick was merely hiding at a friend’s house, that he would be found and brought home. “But whose house would he hide in?” Cole pointed out. “What friend?” Christmas came tainted. When Cole was asked what he wanted, he said that he wanted to go home and meant L.A. He wished for nothing else. Lizzie flew in from California, once more without her grandmother. This time, the woman had turned tail when she saw the cab at the curb of the nursing home. “If you want to see her,” Lizzie told her mother nonchalantly as she reached to switch on the car radio, “you’re going to have to get your ass back to L.A.” Christmas Eve, Ann woke from a dream that it was Dick she’d found dead, swirling there in the swimming pool. “What’s wrong?” Richard asked, half asleep, his kind blind hand reaching, out of habit, to reassure her. “Nothing,” she said, sliding away from his touch. Cole’s twelfth birthday fell on a bitter January Saturday. Under duress, he’d invited three boys, somewhat randomly—they were in his grade, they lived nearby. The doorbell rang at noon, although the party wouldn’t start until four; the cake was still baking, the decorations unhung. Ann opened the door to find Dick’s parents on her doorstep, holding a puppy with a bow around its neck. “We couldn’t just sit there doing nothing,” Nancy explained as Ann invited them inside. Her husband came in reluctantly, never having entered Ann’s home before. But both the weather and the situation were too raw now for him to stand outside. The couple looked haunted, as if drained of a shared vital fluid. It occurred to Ann that they couldn’t be completely sane at this moment. “We’re looking for Dick,” Nancy said. “We thought he might have come to Colorado. Gary saw it in a dream, the KOA campground in Fort Collins.” Dick’s father blushed deeply inside the hood of his hunter’s camouflage jacket. He was not a man accustomed to sharing his dreams, to having them made public. Nancy touched his sleeve with her free hand. This was how they stayed together, Ann saw—by giving permission, comfort, by being so much the other’s missing half. “Sit down,” she said, indicating the couch before the hearth, where she’d just lit a fire. “Richard and Cole are out buying hot dogs. It’s Cole’s birthday.” The smell of the cake baking was in the air; balloons were drifting under the dining-room table. “And we brought him a present,” Nancy said. “There’s nothing like a Rottie, you’ll see.” She held the animal up by its armpits, its little lump of a penis damp on its tight pink stomach. Ann took the dog awkwardly. It smelled like the family’s house in L.A., like Dick. “What about the other boys?” Ann asked, breathing through her mouth, blinking away tears, as the puppy nuzzled into the crook of her arm. “We didn’t clip his tail,” Nancy said of the dog. “We thought you wouldn’t want him clipped.” “The other boys are with Gary, Jr.,” Dick’s father said. “He was fixing to be called up for duty, but we made this a priority. We’re taking a proactive, uh—” he said, waving his hand as memory failed him. “Stance,” Nancy supplied. “Stance.” He wouldn’t meet Ann’s eyes. Just like Dick, that way. She guessed that he resented his youngest son for preventing his eldest from serving his country in this, its time of need. In the lull, Ann thought to offer beverages—soda, tea, water—but what Dick’s father requested was wine. And she liked him briefly for it. A little sympathetic tendril went out—she would have wine, too—then recoiled as she set the puppy on the kitchen floor. Seeing it precarious on the linoleum, legs braced and quivering, she had a chilly intuition: this visit was not just to deliver a dog. They hadn’t believed her when she said that Cole hadn’t heard from Dick. They had come to see for themselves. She had to restrain herself from storming back into the living room, leading them on a glorious search of the premises, flinging open closets and thrusting their faces into the empty spaces beneath the beds. As if she would keep that kind of secret. “Listen,” Gary said, after tossing his wine back like a dose of something medicinal. “We want to question your boy.” Nancy reached a hand in either direction, spreading herself between Ann and her husband as if to ward off blows. “Just talk to him,” she said. “Honey, we don’t want to scare him. I would never scare that sweet boy.” “It’s his birthday,” Ann said helplessly, hearing the familiar punk, punk of the car doors slamming outside. Cole burst through the foyer, having recognized his friend’s car in the drive, the California plates. Every adult in the room watched his face fill with the knowledge that Dick had not made a miraculous journey to join him on his birthday. “The KOA is closed,” Nancy had been saying. Ann now watched her take in Cole—his new height, the very faint hint of a soft mustache on his upper lip—Nancy’s emotions so close to the surface, the sincere and fraught affection she had for the boy. Nancy would never not know Cole, Ann realized. None of them would ever not know the others. The dog, now sleeping in her arms—if they accepted this gift—would live with Ann for years to come. Cole went directly to Nancy, laying his head on her chest and squeezing shut his eyes. Richard did not want the puppy. Good deeds would help heal Dick’s family’s hurt, Ann insisted, but she wondered whether her openness had more to do with opposing Richard than with the inherent wisdom of adopting the dog. Whatever the reason, she won. She almost always won when she and Richard disagreed. He loved her too much. “What will you call it?” they asked Cole. “Dick,” he said. Dick the dog cried in the dark night, a strangely escalating ululation that started at around two in the morning. It was as if he were being tortured, as if solitude were killing him. Only human contact comforted him. Richard, who was the lightest sleeper, performed this role. Ann found him one predawn morning, sitting in the kitchen in the dim light of the open oven door, cradling the puppy like a baby, stroking it mindlessly. Her husband looked languorous and fatigued, in that parental fugue state of too little sleep, too much tenderness. Not every man would do this, Ann told herself. The dog slept against Richard’s chest, fat paws limp and folded at his chin. It was a scene to make her heart relent. Perhaps they should have had another child, a youngster to keep them young themselves, to distract them from the leakage of playfulness from the house, to preserve innocence. When Richard glanced up and saw her watching him, his face clouded, as if he were ashamed at, or perhaps only irritated by, having been caught. She had done this, made him uneasy with his own love. Cole continued to ask about Dick. One night, Ann listened from the dark hallway as Richard comforted him. “Sometimes people grow so unhappy,” he said, “that they think running away is the only solution.” He went on to describe the hills and valleys of a lifetime, the fact that some people couldn’t recognize a hard time as a temporary circumstance. He was positing a landscape, wide and full, elevations and declivities, a map meant to reassure himself, too, Ann thought, charting something that would allay his own fears about his wife, his daughter, his life. Cole said nothing, though Ann could tell that he was listening. Even as she was grateful to Richard for his gentle intelligence, she found herself arguing against it. Surely there was some instance in which running away was the answer? In the hallway, Richard passed without meeting her eyes, not exactly cold, but wary. His steps faded down the stairs. The light in Cole’s room was off, and Ann waited to hear him cry or call for her, and, when he didn’t, she put her face to the crack in his open door. “Do you want me to lie down with you?” she asked into the dark. “That’s O.K.,” he said, declining. She entered the room anyway, and knelt by the bed, like a child saying prayers. “What are you thinking?” she whispered. His hair smelled sour; he still needed reminding to bathe. After a long silence, he turned to face her. “About Dick.” “What about Dick?” “Me and him were going to live on a ranch,” Cole said. Growing accustomed to the dark, Ann could see his hands folded under his cheek, the shine of his eyes. “We were going to have three dogs each, and horses.” He blinked thoughtfully, recalling the place they’d made up. “And a barn cat,” he added. “Baby,” she said, stroking his hair. In her mind, his ranch sprang to life; she put it in the back yard of their new home, under the foothills of the Rockies, though it had its creative origins in frenetic Los Angeles, beneath high-tension wires and airplanes and ozone alerts. “Where was this ranch?” she asked. “Texas,” he said without hesitation. A massive Utopian landscape that neither boy had seen, a giant star on a map, full of astronauts and cowboys. “Me and Dick dreamed about it all the time. We invented it in our sleep.” “Maybe that’s where Dick went,” Ann said. “Maybe that’s where his parents should look.” “I told them that,” Cole said. “They said they would, but it’s a big place.” She wondered how her son was picturing his friend, what he saw when he imagined Dick—Dick no longer in L.A., no longer anywhere in particular but everywhere, and nowhere, at once. He was, for Ann, fear itself, rumored, possible, unknown. Better for Cole to summon the Texas ranch and their future livestock. “Mom, I think I know why Dick ran away.” “You do?” She feared that he would utter her own suspicion, that it had been their departure that set events in motion. That in some skewed way she, Ann, was directly responsible for that boy’s sorrow, for the reverberating despair of everyone who knew him, including Cole himself, right here in his bed. She laid her head on his pillow, ready to be accused. “Why did he run away, sweetheart?” she asked. “I think he didn’t want to turn twelve,” Cole said. Ann waited, but Cole had finished. She said, “But it’ll still be his birthday.” “I know.” Her son wasn’t going to explain the contradiction; Ann would simply have to accept it, and she did. “It already was his birthday,” he added. He and Dick had thrown joint birthday parties—in Cole’s yard one year, in Dick’s the next—hands clasped together around a knife over a single layer cake, like a couple of newlyweds. Had Cole arrived at his insight concerning Dick because he shared the opinion about turning twelve, because he didn’t find life, anymore, all that worthwhile? Ann couldn’t bear to think so. She closed her eyes and hoped—it seemed a weak thing, hope, and it was all she had—with all her heart not. But even if he did, even if it were true, could she beg him not to feel the way he felt? No. No more than he could beg her. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Red from Green	The summer she turned fifteen, Sam Turner took her last float trip down the river with her father. It was July, and hot, and the water was low. Hardly anyone was on the river but them. They had two inflatable Avon rafts with oaring frames—Sam and her father in one, her uncle Harry and a client from Harry’s new law firm in the other. In the fall, she would be a sophomore, which sounded very old to her. She’d been offered a scholarship to a boarding school back East, but she hadn’t accepted it yet. Applying had been her father’s idea, but now he looked dismayed every time the subject came up. Everyone said what an opportunity it was, so much better than the local schools, but she couldn’t bring herself to fill out the forms, and neither of them could talk about it. Sam had been down the river every summer for as long as she could remember—in a dozen rainstorms, and in hot sun that burned the print of swimsuit straps into her shoulders. Harry, her father’s younger brother, sometimes brought his friends, who passed the bottle of schnapps to her when her father was away from the campfire. She liked the smell better than the burning taste. She knew all the campsites and the cliff-shaded turns of the river, and the long, flat stretch through pasture at the end. It was a four-day float trip, or five if you dawdled, or three if her father had to get back to work. Her uncle’s client was the reason they were on the river so late in the summer, when it was all sandbars and rocks. Sam hadn’t been told that, exactly, but it was the feeling she got, that they were going for this client. He had come from somewhere else, and was staying in Montana only for the case. She met him at the put-in, unloading the gear. Harry introduced her as his niece. “You got a name?” the client asked. “Sam,” she said. “Layton,” the client said. He was younger than her uncle, and he wasn’t tall, but he was big in the chest and arms. He set a full cooler on the ground and put out a hand to shake hers. “God, I like being up here,” he said. “I’m part Crow, part Blackfoot, part Sioux, I think. Part Jewish.” His eyes were blue. He let her hand go. “You have perfect teeth,” he said. “Did you have braces?” “No,” she said. She was awkward at fifteen, and praise made her suspicious. Layton said, “This is gonna be fun.” Her father and Harry drove both empty trucks downriver to the place they’d take out three days later, to leave one and bring the other back. Sam stayed with the rafts, and Layton volunteered to stay with her—to keep her safe, he said. They sat on the bank with the gear, sliding the coolers along the grass as the sun moved, to keep them in the shade. Sam was reading “The Thorn Birds,” bought at the supermarket along with the ice and groceries on the way out of town. “It’s not on your reading list,” her father had said, dropping it in her lap in the truck. “But it’s the best thing they had.” The boarding school had sent her a summer reading list with thirty books on it, books like “The Portrait of a Lady” and “Tender Is the Night,” but in her reluctance she’d forgotten to bring one along. Layton took out a shotgun to clean and oil it. “I bet you’re a crack shot,” he said. “Montana girl like you. I bet you’ve got your own guns.” Sam shook her head and kept reading, and he brought the gun over to show her the sight, which was just a notch of steel on the barrel. He crouched close to her shoulder, and she could smell the oil on the gun. “You don’t need a fancy sight for a shotgun,” he said. “You ever fire one?” “No,” she said. Her father had guns, but he hadn’t been hunting since her mother died. Sam barely remembered her; she’d hit black ice driving to Coeur d’Alene when Sam was four. She sometimes wondered if her father had quit hunting because he’d been busy taking care of her, or if he’d just stopped liking to shoot things. “Ho, boy,” Layton said. He stood up. “We gotta take care of that. Get you a pheasant.” “It isn’t bird season.” “No one’ll know out here,” he said. He ran a cloth over the barrel. “There are houses on the river,” she told him. “It’s not very remote.” Layton laughed. “Re-mote. That’s a good word.” She felt her cheeks heat up, but didn’t say anything. “I don’t need very remote,” he said. “Just a little remote.” Sam knew that her father wouldn’t tolerate poaching, so she left it for him to take care of. But when he and Harry drove up, her father just looked hard at the shotgun and started loading his boat. They put in that afternoon, and in spite of the low water they got to the first campsite before dark. Her father had a two-man tent for himself and a burrow for her—a waterproof sack just big enough for a sleeping bag, with a mosquito net at the top. She set up the burrow with her sleeping bag inside, and Layton and Harry built a fire and talked about the case. Her uncle Harry was childless, and had been jobless on and off. He had always seemed to take pride in being the wild younger brother—Sam’s father was a district judge—but something had come over Harry a few years ago, and he had gone to law school and managed to pass the bar. He was a big man with a belly, and everyone liked him. He was trying to get out of debt, and the lawyer he had joined up with had given him Layton’s case. There were four other plaintiffs, all lab workers with neurological damage from exposure to organic solvents. One of them couldn’t remember her children’s names if someone nearby was wearing perfume. Diesel fumes, bathroom cleaners, scented soaps, new carpet—anything could set it off. Another had stopped driving, because she didn’t always know whether a red light meant stop or go. Layton was a key plaintiff, because he had nothing in common with the women except the lab, where he had worked for a month on the wiring, and his tests matched all of theirs. It was good, too, to have a man involved; people were less likely to assume that he was inventing his symptoms. But his symptoms were milder than theirs, and he’d had to be cajoled into joining the lawsuit, and then into sticking around to go to depositions and have more tests. Sam guessed the river trip was part of the cajoling. “I dunno,” Layton said, standing over the fire ring. “I lose my car keys sometimes, but I did that before. I’m not very litigious. I might just take that job in Reno and scrap this whole thing.” Harry frowned at his tower of twigs. “When you could be here?” he said. “Fishing and hunting?” “It’s not even bird season yet,” Layton said, and he winked at Sam. “If this thing drags out much longer, I’ll go nuts.” Harry said nothing, but worked on the fire. The next morning, Layton was in the water before breakfast, fishing in waders, which no one ever brought in a boat on the river—you just waded out in shorts. He caught a little brown trout, clubbed its head, and threw it in the raft. Sam’s father held the fish to the marks on the raft’s rubber bow, and said it wasn’t big enough. “Pull on the tail a little,” Layton said. “It’ll stretch.” He was already moving back into the current, and the fish was dying. Sam saw Harry give her father a look, and her father put the fish in the cooler. They packed up early and got on the river. Sam rode in the front of her father’s raft, lying across the cooler that slid into the metal frame. She read for a while and then fell asleep with the sun on her back, waking to jump in the water and drag the raft over sandbars when it got low. At camp that afternoon, her father went fishing and she walked away from the river, up toward the hills. The grass in the open was pale yellow, and the path through the trees spiked with sunshine, but she was thinking about boarding school. She had a sense that she wasn’t equipped for it. And she was wondering if she really had perfect teeth, and if anyone but adults would ever care. When Layton came through the trees, she knew she’d wanted him to show up, though she hadn’t known it before. His attention was different from other adult attention. “I brought you something,” he said. She waited, but he kept on up the trail, and she followed him. They got over the first hill from camp, and up a second, higher one, and down again into a clearing. There weren’t any farms or houses, and they were a long way from the river. Layton reached under his shirt and pulled out a small pistol, dark gray, with a short, square barrel. There was a fallen tree ten yards away, with small branches sticking up, and he stood an empty beer bottle upside down on one of the branches. The last of the beer stained the bark of the tree. Then he walked back and gave her the pistol. It was still warm from his skin, and heavy. “Nine-millimetre Ruger semiautomatic,” he said. “My pride and joy.” “Can they hear it?” “I don’t think so, with those hills,” he said. “Anyway, we’re legal. We’re not killing anything.” He took her right hand and shaped it around the gun. “One hand like this, arm straight, just like the movies,” he said. He reached around her shoulders and positioned her left hand. “The other underneath.” He kicked the instep of her right foot. “Bring this leg back.” Sam stepped back and pointed the gun at the bottle, not really breathing, with his chest against her back. “Close one eye,” he said. “Cover your target with the barrel. The gun’s going to kick up, but it’ll drop right back where you need it. You only need to squeeze a little.” He let her go and stepped away. She missed the bottle completely on the first shot, and the kick surprised her: the gun’s explosion shot through her hands and shoulders and down into her legs. The second time, she blew away the upended bottom. The third time, she hit the broken-off neck. Then there was just a little triangle of glass sticking up from the tree. “Go for it,” Layton said. She did, and hit it, and there was nothing left but a stub of branch. “Hit the branch,” Layton said. And she did. She’d never been so proud of anything. Layton reached out and rubbed the top of her head, quick. “She’s a sharpshooter,” he said. “You’re not afraid of the kick yet, so you’re not anticipating anything. You’ve got to keep that.” “O.K.,” she said. She could feel herself grinning like an idiot. “Those perfect teeth,” Layton said. She closed her mouth and looked at the scarred tree where the bottle had been, which made her want to smile again, but she didn’t. “I’m sorry,” Layton said. “That’s O.K.,” she said. They walked back to camp, and Layton veered off as they got close, so they came from different angles. They said nothing, and her father and Harry asked nothing. Sam thought they must have heard the shots, but she figured it could have been Layton shooting alone. She had hit quarters propped in the tree bark, and made a smiley face in a piece of paper. In the pocket of her shorts, she carried an exploded hollow-point, which Layton said wasn’t legal to buy anymore, and a warped quarter. Layton slipped the folded smiley face into the camp garbage bag, and told Harry he didn’t think there were pheasants out here at all. Sam’s father was making enchiladas in a Dutch oven, and chipping ice for margaritas with a pick. He made one without tequila for Sam. Layton asked for a virgin, too—alcohol made him nauseated since the work in the lab—and got out a little stereo with batteries. Sam’s father said it would ruin the silence of nature, but pretty soon he was dancing at the cookstove, singing along to reggae covers. It was still light, and the swallows dived in the canyon. Her father two-stepped over with a big plastic spoon and a chip full of salsa, singing in falsetto, “No you ain’t—seen—nothin’ like the Might-y Quinn.” He gave her the chip and kissed her on the forehead. Her uncle Harry had too many margaritas and started talking about the case, about those poor, sick people with their lives ruined, and the gall of the people who said they were making it up. When it got dark, he went to bed. The other three sat close around the orange coals of the fire, and her father made up blues songs on the harmonica. After a while, Layton said, “I need someone to walk on my back if I’m gonna row tomorrow. I’d ask you,” he said to Sam’s father, “but I’m guessing you weigh about two-fifty.” Her father didn’t say anything; he kept playing harmonica. Layton looked to Sam, who looked at the fire. “It just takes a minute,” he said. “I threw it out on a job, and rowing that boat messed it up.” Her father kept his eyes closed, the harmonica wailing. Sam stood up. “Shoes off,” Layton said. She slipped off her sandals and left them by the fire. Layton lay on his stomach on the ground. “O.K., step on careful,” he said. “Right in the middle.” She stepped, squeezing the air out of his voice. “Now the other foot,” he said. “Keep your balance.” She could feel his ribs beneath her toes. “Now walk forward, slowly, then back.” She did, and her father got up from the fire. “I’m beat,” he said. “We should get an early start tomorrow.” Sam looked at him, and he nodded, as if agreeing with himself. He put away his harmonica and disappeared into the dark, where his tent was pitched. She could hear the rustle of nylon and the whine of the zipper, and then the night was quiet. “One more time,” Layton said. “That’s so great. Now if you kneel with your knees between my shoulder blades, that’s all I need.” She knelt like he said, lowering her hips to her heels, looking down at her bare knees and the short hair at the back of his head. “Now hold it there,” he whispered. “Oh, God.” Then he didn’t say anything. The right side of her body was warm from the fire, the left side was cold. It was too cold at night to be wearing shorts. She heard her father roll over in his sleeping bag inside the tent, nylon against nylon. Layton’s hand came back and touched her hip. “You’re tilted to this side,” he said. She straightened. “There,” he said, but his hand stayed on her hip. She thought about what to do. His eyes were closed, and he seemed to have forgotten the hand. After a minute, it slipped under the back of her thigh, touching her skin. She took his wrist and moved it away. The hand paused in the air, then slipped back under her thigh, over her shorts, touching between her legs with a shock like the jolt of the gun firing in her hands. She put her hands on the ground to stand up, awkwardly, but he found her calf and pulled her back down. “Stay,” he whispered. She was on one knee, half-straddling his back in the dust, and he rolled over, facing her. His hand slid up her leg to the small of her back and held tight. His eyes were cloudy and intent, focussed and unfocussed all at once, and she’d never seen a man look that way before. She pulled away then, and he let her go, and she left the fire and climbed, trembling, into her burrow. She lay awake long after the moon rose, listening to the sounds in the camp: to her father snoring, and Layton finally putting out the fire, and the unzipping of his tent, and the rustle of his going to bed. She kept her hands between her thighs for warmth, and the feeling there was sharp and aching, but she didn’t know what to do about it except lie awake breathing until it went away. When she woke up, Layton was out in the river again, walking downstream and casting at the banks. It was the brightest day yet, and a mayfly hatch hovered over the water, the current dimpled with the open mouths of rising trout. Her father poured the last of the hot water into the oatmeal in her cup, and she ate standing. In her shadow on the ground, she could see her hair, three days uncombed, sticking out on one side. She smoothed it down with her hand. On the long, flat stretch to the takeout, Sam rowed for a while. Her father pointed out a kingfisher in the brush along the banks, an osprey nest perched on the top of a tall tree. When she got the boat stuck on a rock, her father didn’t say anything, but took the oars backward and pried them off. Layton and Harry stayed well ahead. It got hot, and she slipped off the raft and dropped under, feeling the cold current in her hair and clothes. Layton didn’t look at her at the takeout. They deflated the rafts and packed up the truck with the drained-energy feeling of a trip being over, and she changed into dry shorts in the trees. Her father drove and Harry had the other window, so she was squished with Layton in the middle, his left leg pressed against her right. They dropped her uncle and Layton at the put-in with Harry’s truck, and drove home in silence. Sam tried to keep her eyes open, but fell asleep. At the house, they unpacked the truck and hosed out the coolers, and when she gathered up her book and her river shorts the hollow-point fell out of the pocket onto the grass. Her father picked up the bullet, rolled it in his hand, held it between his fingers. It was copper-cased, splayed out in a blossom of dull lead where the tip had been. “Where’d you find this?” he asked. “I shot it.” She waited for the next question. He said nothing, but held out the slug to her, and she took it. He picked up one of the dry-boxes and carried it into the shed. For a while, she listened to him unpacking, putting pots where they belonged, not noisily or angrily, just putting them away. Then she went into the house and filled out the acceptance form for the scholarship to boarding school, and in the morning she put it in the mail. She said nothing at first, and life went on as usual: she finished “The Thorn Birds” and saw her friends and ate dinners with her father. They talked about the weather and the cases he’d heard, and then, after a week, she told him that she’d accepted the scholarship. He frowned at the table. “Oh,” he said. “I mean, that’s great.” She wanted to ask why he had left her by the campfire, but instead she said, “Orientation is the last week of August. I should get a ticket.” “Sure,” he said. “Right.” He looked straight at her, and his eyebrows knit together. “I’ll miss you here.” She felt a flood of warmth for him, an overwhelming feeling that it was a mistake to go away. He hadn’t meant to leave her there. He hadn’t known what would happen. He definitely hadn’t meant for it to happen. Again she wanted to ask, to make sure, but instead she took her dishes to the sink, and the moment was over. A few days before she went away, there was a legal brief on the kitchen counter, with the names of her uncle’s other plaintiffs but without Layton’s. When she asked about it, her father said Layton had left for a job in Reno, and had taken himself off the case. He’d decided his symptoms weren’t so bad, and it wasn’t worth it. He got little rashes under his eyes and he couldn’t drink—so what? He’d needed to stop drinking anyway, he said. There wasn’t anything keeping him in Montana, and it was too much of a hassle to stay involved from Reno. Her father drove her to the airport and carried her bag right up to the gate before saying, for the first time, that he didn’t really want her to go. She cried all the way down the jetway, and the man in the seat beside her gave her a packet of Kleenex to stop her nose from running, and patted her shoulder when they landed in Salt Lake. Someone from the airline told her where to change planes, and from Boston she took the bus she’d been told to take, though it seemed impossible that it could be the right one. She was red-eyed and nervous, but had decided that she didn’t know anything, and the idea of going away was to learn. The bus took her to a staggered group of brick buildings set back in the trees in a little town. She read “The Portrait of a Lady” that fall, and also “The Beach House” and “Candy.” Fifteen was old at boarding school. Most of the kids’ parents didn’t want them at home, and, knowing that, the kids seemed to know everything. A girl down the hall had done Ecstasy with her boyfriend back in Maryland, and had sex for three hours straight. Sam’s roommate, Gabriela—whose last roommate got the Latin teacher fired—was surprised and impressed that Sam was a virgin. There was a phone in the hall, and when Sam’s friends from home asked for her, Gabriela said, “They sound so western.” One of them, Kelley Timmens, had just sent Sam a letter about a boy they knew: “We didn’t have sex,” she wrote, “but imagine as sick as you can imagine—without having sex.” Gabriela had laughed, reading the letter. “What does she mean?” she asked. When Sam called home to say that she was going to New York with Gabriela for Thanksgiving, her father said, “I’d get you a ticket home.” “I know,” she said. “But it’s two days of flying, for two days there.” That had been Gabriela’s argument. “Where will you stay?” “With her mom.” There was a silence on the line, and she imagined the quiet, empty house around him. “What happened to Harry’s case?” she asked. “Oh, it got dismissed,” her father said. “They needed that guy. What was his name? On the river.” “Layton,” she said. “Layton,” he said. “You can’t blame him. He wasn’t really sick.” “And the other people?” “They can’t work,” her father said. “They have these awful headaches, all the time, and they can’t go out.” “I’m sorry.” “It was a tough case,” he said. He asked a few questions about school, and then they said goodbye and Sam hung up, thinking about the woman who couldn’t drive, because the chemicals in everything made her forget which light meant stop and which go. She lay back on her bed under Gabriela’s Charlie Parker poster, and stretched her leg up to her face so her nose touched her knee, which was something Gabriela did. She brought the leg down and stretched the other one up. She thought about the parties there were supposed to be in New York, and the boy from Exeter Gabriela was thinking about sleeping with, and the dime bag Gabriela was trying to get. She thought about her father eating dinner alone on the dark winter nights, with no one to talk to. And her friends—Kelley Timmens and the others—laughing in the hallway of her old high school, with its rows of lockers and the fluorescent lights reflected in the shiny floors. She thought about the pink cleaning stuff the janitors used, the smell of it in the mornings when she got to school, and the shampoo dispensers on the walls of the girls’ gym showers that said “Montana Broom and Brush.” She thought about her father nodding to her, after saying good night by the campfire, and about the aching feeling later as she lay in her sleeping bag, and how she hadn’t understood what it meant. She smelled Gabriela’s soap on the back of her wrist, and then her roommate walked in. “Where are you?” Gabriela asked. “You’re doing that spacey thing again.” Sam smiled. “No, I’m here.” “You’re not. You’re off in Montana or something. Do you have any letters from sick Kelley?” “No.” Gabriela looked disappointed, but then she brightened. “I have to tell you what just happened in the library,” she said. “You know that reading room you can lock?” Sam nodded and rolled over to listen, tucking her pillow under her arms and her chin. The detergent on the pillowcase was Mountain Fresh. Gabriela flopped down on the new rug, and tossed back her long, conditioned hair. The rug was cream-colored and Gabriela ran her hand across it, smoothing the fibres down. She looked a little flushed. “O.K., here’s how it started,” she said, and the story, full of longing and intrigue, began. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Niece	He had replaced five light bulbs that day, and by late afternoon he couldn’t help anticipating the soft ping of the element flying apart whenever he reached for a switch. The third time—the fixture on the landing—the thought zigzagged across his mind that these little explosions were a sign, like the two dogs he had come across in the autumn, greyhound and bulldog, locked together on the grassy slope of the local park. He had given them a wide berth; still, he’d felt responsible on the bus the next day when a man had turned puce and slid to the floor. By the fifth light, though, he had given up on superstition and was blaming London Electricity. Some irregularity in the current, some unexpected surge, was slaughtering the bulbs. The Barrows were away, at a conference in Latvia, which was why the decorating was being done now, but they were the sort of people who kept spares—he could tell from their orderly supplies of toilet paper and condiments—just not in any place he could find. Meanwhile, he gradually emptied the upstairs rooms, slipping the bulbs from bedside lights and desk lamps. Next time he went to the shops, he’d pick up a pack and add it to his bill under “Miscellaneous.” Later, of course, the little zaps made perfect sense. But when the doorbell rang Zeke set aside the wallpaper steamer without a shard of premonition. Often, if he was up a ladder, he didn’t answer the knocks and rings of late afternoon—after all, they were never for him—but now the pallor of the sky, the flashes of light and dark, the weariness of working alone all conspired to make even the prospect of rebuffing a double-glazing salesman, or a greasy-haired collector for Oxfam, a pleasure. Last Friday, in a similar mood, he’d found a chap on the doorstep, thin as a junkie, pretending to be blind. He had the dark glasses, the white cane, the fluttery stuff with the hands. “You’re a painter,” the man had said, sniffing slightly. Zeke had ended up giving him fifty pence. “But how do you know he was a con man?” his mother had asked that night on the phone. “People compensate.” “I was looking out of the window and I saw him in the street, checking the ‘A to Z.’ ” “Barmy,” his mother said, but there was a note of admiration in her voice, as if a fake blind man might be closer to her ideal son than a conscientious decorator. Now the door swung open and a woman, no collecting tin, no clipboard, filled his vision. He hadn’t replaced the bulb in the hall yet, and in the dim light her features took a few seconds to assemble. He made out abrupt dark eyebrows above a substantial nose and plump, glistening lips, as if the inside of her mouth had flowed alarmingly onto the outside. For a moment, Zeke was baffled. Then he went through the steps he’d learned from the poster at the clinic. Eyes wide, a glimpse of teeth, corners of the mouth turning up rather than down: usually these indicated a smile that could, he knew, mean anger but more often meant friendliness. Yes, she was smiling, although not necessarily at him. Her expression had clearly been prepared in advance, but Zeke admired the way she held her face steady at the sight of him, and of his work clothes. His jeans and shirt were so paint-spattered as to be almost a separate entity. “Good afternoon.” She stretched out her hand and, seeing his, white with Spackle, faltered, neither withdrawing nor completing the gesture. “Hi,” he said, hating the single, stupid syllable. She was tall for a woman, his height save for the doorstep, and dimly familiar, though not as herself. As she began to speak, he realized who she reminded him of: the bust of Beethoven on his father’s piano. Something about the expansiveness of her features, the way her tawny hair sprang back from her forehead. “I’m the niece,” she said. Her breath streamed toward him, a chilly plume, carrying more words, perhaps an entire sentence, which Zeke lost as he blinked away Beethoven. “I’m the decorator,” he said. “The Barrows are away.” “But they told you I would be here,” she said with no hint of a question. She stooped to pick up the large black suitcases on either side of her, and as she straightened he saw that she was pregnant. She stepped past him—the word “pushed” came to mind—and set the cases, gently, at the foot of the stairs. “Where are you working?” He nodded toward the living room. She stood in the empty doorway—the door was at the strippers—surveying the room. Under the influence of her attention, Zeke saw again what his work had revealed: the ragged plaster painted not a single color but in pale bands of blue and brown, gray and yellow, the work of some unknown artist. In the middle of the floor the furniture was piled up and draped in dust sheets, like some ungainly prehistoric animal. “Groovy,” she said. “We should do a mural—hunting and fishing, golfing and shopping.” “I don’t think your aunt and uncle . . .” Then he caught himself: humor. That had always been tricky for him. Even the question about the hen crossing the road could make him pause. “I told them it was a big job. You never know what you’ll find when you strip off the paper. And Emmanuel, the guy who helps me, did his back in.” “How?” she said. “What?” “How”—she patted the small of her back—“did he bugger up his back?” “Reaching for a corner. Snooker, not painting.” In the bare space, their voices took on burly undertones. Hers was deep, anyway. As for his, Zeke wasn’t sure. He had read that humans hear their own voices through the jaw, not the air; every time a tooth is lost or filled, the timbre changes. “Aren’t they due back this week?” she said. “The nineteenth, they told me.” Finally she shrugged off her coat, revealing a dark-green dress. The heating was on full blast, not his bill, and the house was as snug as a tea cozy. She retreated to sling her coat over the banister and then came back into the room with that greedy, pushing motion. As she turned, he saw again, silhouetted against the window, her belly. Who would have expected the whey-faced Barrows to have a niece like this? And older than he’d thought, he saw now, as the light caught the little line like an exclamation mark between her eyebrows. “Don’t let me stop you,” she said, her nose, her lavish mouth, bearing down, “working.” A sentence appeared in Zeke’s head: I’d like to tie you to the bed. How did that get there, inside his brain, about this woman? “I was taking a break,” he said. “Anyway.” He was no longer certain that she was ugly, only that he wanted to keep looking to make sure. But in the empty room he didn’t dare. This must be why people had furniture: not just for comfort but, like clothing, for camouflage. And why interrogation and torture were traditionally carried out in sparsely furnished spaces. “When I was fifteen,” she said, and her tone was such that he couldn’t tell if she was talking to him or to herself, “my parents let me paint my room. We were a family—this probably sounds absurd—who never painted anything. First I wrote on the wall the things I wanted to be rid of: hypocrisy, mother, father, brother. Then I slapped on the paint, deep purple.” “Did it work?” Her head swivelled in his direction, and he had the sense of being seen at last. “Not,” she exhaled, “entirely. But I did like the feeling of making my mark. Do you ever get the glums?” “No,” he said. And then the word seemed to leap from his larynx: “Sometimes.” To his own stupefaction, he imagined telling her the whole deformed story, the one his mother wanted to wrap in euphemisms, like offal in newspaper, and chuck in the dustbin. “Why ‘brother’?” he asked. “I have one.” Her eyebrows dashed together. “In America, maybe.” She seized a wallpaper brush and fingered the gluey bristles. “Years ago, I was hitching near Oxford, and a polystyrene salesman picked me up. The back seat of his car was full of those nice white containers, all different sizes. It started to rain, bucketing down, the windscreen wipers going lickety-split, and he said, ‘Do you ever think of killing yourself?’ His voice was so casual, I was sure I’d misunderstood, like you just now. I said, ‘Sometimes.’ ” Zeke blinked again rapidly. “Then he asked if I’d read ‘Steppenwolf.’ I said yes, though to be honest I wasn’t sure. It’s one of those books that were in the ether for a while. I looked over at this porky, red-faced, middle-aged bloke and his eyes were brimming. ‘I have,’ he said. ‘Every day I think of it. There’s always the razor and the knife.’ ” She set aside the brush and flicked a roll of lining paper. “Are you taking off the paper just to put it on again?” The Barrows, her aunt and uncle, had asked that, too. He explained about the old houses of London, how the walls were held up by wood-chip paper. When you removed it, the best way to get a smooth finish was to put on lining paper and paint over that. “Cup of tea?” he suggested, and, cursing himself, backed out of the room. Once, maybe twice a year, he had something that resembled a conversation, something that wasn’t about fish fingers or the telly or who was effing whom. And, idiotically, he bolted. Blind rejection was one thing. To be seen, then dismissed, was quite another. He might hate his mother’s mealymouthed phrases—Oh, Zeke’s just under the weather—but the day, six years earlier, that she turned her shiny blue eyes upon him and said, “You’ll end up in the loony bin if you carry on like this,” he had felt as if a pickaxe were aimed at the very center of his forehead. Afraid to return to the living room, he hovered beside the kettle. Give me another surge, he thought, winging his request to the head office. He heard a sound from the hall, one thud followed by another. “Did I scare you?” Seeing her stocking feet, he understood not only the noises he’d just heard but those that came most nights through his bedroom ceiling: one shoe, two shoes. “Which side are you on?” he said. “Roundheads or cavaliers? Arsenal or Chelsea? Flat earth or solar system?” “Mr. or Mrs. Barrow.” He pushed a mug of tea toward her. “Whose niece are you?” “Mr.’s—can’t you tell?” Her eyelids grew wide and her chin rose, as if defying him not to notice the similarity. “Maybe I could take Emmanuel’s place.” Bewildered, Zeke stared at her feet, not broad like her hands but long and slender in dark-purple hose. Was this humor, too? “He’s not around,” she said. She sounded so definite that for a moment Zeke wondered if she somehow knew Emmanuel. Then he remembered that he was the one who had told her about him, the snooker and the bad back. “Perhaps I could lend a hand.” “You?” She gave a hoot. “I’m not offering to spend twelve hours a day up a ladder, but some things are easier with two people, like folding sheets.” I am, Zeke thought, profoundly boring, a notion not contradicted by her announcement that she was going to check out the sleeping arrangements. Heels striking the floor, she carried her tea upstairs. Normally he quit at five, but today he kept pressing Spackle into even the smallest cracks until close to six-thirty. Then, in the face of an unbroken silence from above, he admitted defeat. He tidied his tools in the way that his old boss Ferdinand had taught him. The two of them had been united in their meticulous attitude toward objects and their hesitation toward people. “You know, they say the brain has pathways,” Ferdinand had said. “Mine are covered with sand.” Zeke washed his hands, and called the news of his departure, wanly, up the stairs. “Wait.” There she was on the landing. “Are you coming tomorrow? When?” Her face was once again indistinguishable. “I aim for eight,” he told her. “Shall I bring up your suitcases?” “No.” The word hit him with such force that he grabbed the banister. He was still wondering what he’d done wrong when she added, at more normal volume, “Thanks. I need the keys.” She swam down the stairs, stopping on the last one, hand outstretched. He should have guessed then, from the way her eyes fastened on his, that something was awry, that she wasn’t on good terms with her aunt and uncle or that Ms. F.—weren’t all fetuses female at first?—was a problematic guest, but the warmth of her breath, the lilt of her perfume, expunged rational thought. Helpless, he laid the keys in her palm. “Will you be up to let me in?” he said. “Up with the lark.” She made a flapping motion with one hand. “Up with the milkman.” “Are you all right?” he found himself asking. “There’s always the razor and the knife,” she said softly. Then—he pictured all the buses in London rising an inch into the air—she leaned forward and pressed her lips to his cheek. The next morning, Zeke rang the bell, knocked, tried the knob. The door stayed resolutely shut, the windows adamantly blank. He even bent down and called, foolishly, through the letter box, “Hello, it’s me. Zeke.” By the end of five minutes, he was holding on to himself, like a kite on a gusty day. He fished around in his pockets, his bag, and was rewarded with an unmistakable vision of his mobile phone, lying on the floor beside his bed. As he walked to the corner, he counted the fag ends on the pavement, some crushed, some whole, to keep himself from floating away: seven, eight, eleven. Twice he had to stop and retrace his steps to make sure he hadn’t missed one. Look down, he thought, not up. In the forecourt of the underground station, he found a free phone and, trying not to think of all the hands, the mouths, that had touched it, he picked up the receiver and dialled the Barrows’ number. The answering machine clicked on with Mr. Barrow’s brief, nasal message. She’s popped out for a paper, he told himself, she’s taking a bath. Walking back, he forgot the cigarettes and placed his feet, carefully, in the middle of each paving stone. At the house, nothing had changed. He knocked, rang, shouted again, before climbing in through the living-room window. He had opened it the day before while using the steamer and, in the excitement of her arrival, had neglected his usual security measures. Now the ease with which the sash slid up made him feel stricken; he had left her at the mercy of any passing lunatic or thief. Inside, he began to tiptoe toward the hall, then, reconsidering, attempted his normal gait. “Hello. Anyone home?” He turned things on: kettle, radio, lights. No flash and zap today. He made the obligatory cup of tea and set to work. But after ten minutes of sanding he couldn’t bear it. The possibility that she was gone bounded into his head and ricocheted around. And he didn’t even know her name. He laid the sandpaper aside and, wiping his powdery hands on his jeans, climbed the stairs. He had reconnoitered the first day he had the house to himself—he always did, flitting through bedrooms, checking wardrobes and drawers, cupboards and desks. It wasn’t what Emmanuel thought—snooping for kinky underwear or helpful pills—but the way he coped with strange houses; he picked out a hiding place. Sometimes, when he felt particularly shaky, he even stored provisions there: a bottle of water, a packet of biscuits. Here, at the Barrows’, he’d chosen the pedestal desk in the study. With his knees drawn up, he fit almost perfectly into the dark U. Now he moved from one light-bulb-less room to another. In the master bedroom, the tattered floral wallpaper made his teeth ache. As did the disorder that seemed, mysteriously, to have worsened since his last visit. The drawers of the dressing table were half-open and several of the photographs on top lay face down. In the study, next to the desk, the row of machines—computer, printer, fax, even a photocopier—winked at him with little red or green lights. Mrs. Barrow worked at home, she’d explained, editing textbooks. Last, their son—Sean’s? Seth’s?—old room. She had mentioned him at their first meeting, only to be cut off by her husband in a tone that suggested the boy was already halfway to hell in a handcart. Zeke knew that his mother had for several months reacted to his name in a similar fashion. Had he ever been so glad to see a suitcase? The larger of the two lay open at the foot of the bed. Not meaning to snoop, he stared at the contents. Almost half the case was filled with small, multicolored boxes of the kind used for earrings and necklaces; the remainder was occupied by two camera cases, a portable CD player, a clock, and a pair of silver candlesticks. For a moment, Zeke was tempted to count the boxes, each so orderly and distinct. Then he stepped over to the bed and knelt to bury his face in the pillow. Here she was, and here. The scrape of the front door hurled him to his feet. “Hello,” he called, starting down the stairs. She was in the hall, levering off her boots, heel to toe. “I went to get us fried-egg sandwiches.” She flourished a paper bag. “I broke in,” he offered. “Brilliant,” she said, handing him the bag. In the kitchen he set out plates, salt and pepper, sheets of paper towel. He had had his usual bowl of cereal only an hour ago; but now, following her example, he ate ravenously. She was wearing a faded blue sweatshirt, the sleeves rolled up, the hem stretched tight. How far along was she, he wondered, trying to recall Emmanuel’s sister’s configuration at various stages. Six months, maybe seven. Watching her pepper the egg, he realized that he had dreamed about her the night before. Only a fragment remained: she was winching a metal bucket, brimming with water, out of a well. But before he could tell her about it she was talking again, describing her stint as an office cleaner when she’d eaten a fried-egg sandwich every day. “We were meant to start at six. Instead we’d come in at eight-thirty, spray Lysol around, and sit down to our sannies. When the suits arrived at nine, they assumed we were taking a well-earned break after hours of work.” She licked her lips, first lower, then upper, in a glistening circle. “So what are we doing today? Putting up paper?” He began to stammer. He was making good progress. Besides, her aunt and uncle were paying him a fair wage. “I’m serious,” she said. “I need something to take my mind off things.” At the time, he assumed a covert reference to Ms. F. Later, when he went back and scrutinized her every utterance, it became one of those mysterious manhole covers, briefly raised over the sewer of secrecy. Before he could voice any further objections—the dust, the fumes—she had spotted a pair of overalls hanging on the back door, and the next thing he knew she had scrambled into them and was demonstrating how well they fit; her belly split the front like a chestnut its shell. “Come on,” she said. “I bet you’re paid by the job, not the hour.” At first he was embarrassed telling a woman, older than him by perhaps a decade, what to do, but she turned out to be much more biddable than Emmanuel. As they finished the sanding, he on the ladder, she on foot, she lobbed questions in his direction, and despite her careless manner he sensed that she was, in fact, listening to his answers. Whereas the doctors, to a man and woman, as soon as he opened his mouth, had focussed on pencil sharpeners, radiators, doorknobs. They were paid—not enough, not by him—to barely feign attention, scribble a couple of notes, and, as quickly as possible, write a prescription that would propel him, thank God, out of their offices. But this woman, with her fierce brow, her chapped knuckles, for whatever reason, actually seemed interested. “So,” she said, folding the sandpaper onto the sanding block, “is decorating the family business? Or your heart’s desire?” “Neither.” He was longing to ask about her, so he offered himself up, a pound of apples, a fistful of bananas. “My father was a greengrocer in Brighton. Got up at four every day, except Sunday, to buy the fruit and veg. Then he worked until seven at night, hauling sacks of potatoes and chatting up housewives.” “Did you live near the sea?” she asked. “Not far. If I stood on my bed on tiptoe, there was a tiny triangle of water.” He had done this precisely once, dismayed at what the maneuver had revealed. Now he climbed down the ladder, moved it four feet, climbed back up, and started on the next stretch of cornice. “I used to think,” she said, “that life would make sense if I could see the sea every day.” “Not for me. A street makes sense, a house makes sense, but the sea just goes on and on: wave, wave, wave. I couldn’t wait to get away. We were ten when we moved.” Even the absent-minded doctors had caught these sorts of slips. “Do you see yourself as two people?” a man with a wedge-shaped head had asked, gleefully. Barely one, he had thought but not said. She tapped her sandpaper and said nothing. In London, Highbury, his father had a new shop, bigger and busier. “I used to help, evenings, Saturdays. Lovely tomatoes. Nice, juicy oranges. Then one day one of our regulars, Mrs. Oma, said, ‘When you’re the boss,’ and suddenly I understood why my father was always pounding away at me about what to order, how to price stuff. I started to pay attention in school, do my homework. It drove him mad. ‘Do you want to be a dreamer all your life,’ he used to say, ‘head stuck in a book?’ ” “Careful,” she said. Beneath his savage sanding the ladder swayed like a sapling in the wind. He couldn’t tell the story without jumping back into that old, hopeless arena. Over fresh sandpaper, he admitted that he had studied accounting at university. “I wanted to do anthropology—I’d read a book about the rain-forest tribes of Papua, New Guinea—but I didn’t have the nerve. I needed to know that I was heading toward a job.” She didn’t ask the obvious question, which, as they began to measure and cut the lining paper, enabled him to answer it. The day after his final exams, he couldn’t leave the house. “The people I shared with had all gone away, and I’d been looking forward to having the place to myself. But as soon as I stepped outside I worried that I’d left the gas on or the iron or the lights or I hadn’t locked the door or I hadn’t locked the window or I hadn’t flushed the toilet or the cat’s water bowl was empty or my mother was trying to phone. It didn’t matter how often I checked, it didn’t matter if I wrote down that I’d checked, I’d reach the street and have to go back. Remember in ‘Gulliver’s Travels’ when the Lilliputians tie him down? It was like that. Hundreds of strands of anxiety tugging me back. Soon it was easier not to try to get away.” He slid the scissors through the paper, enjoying the smooth mutter of the blades. “When I got better, I knew I couldn’t be an accountant. I liked numbers, but I couldn’t cope with the people on the other end of them. One of our neighbors did odd jobs, so I started helping him.” A strip of paper released from the roll curled back on itself and fell to the floor; he began on the next. “Ferdinand is—” He stopped, searching for the word that would embody his friend, then gave up. “I felt O.K. with him, and, gradually, he wanted to retire, so I took over the business.” “Your dad must have gone nuts.” A hot, dry wind blew through the room. Zeke dropped the scissors. “Break,” he said. He started to ask questions, the same ones she’d asked him—where she grew up, what her mum and dad did; after all these hours it seemed too late to ask her name. “You know,” she said, “when you reach a certain age people don’t ask what your parents do. They ask what you do.” But, without waiting, she went on. “My mother, after years as a bored housewife, runs a glorified junk shop. She invents amazing provenances for her goods: this hot-water bottle warmed the feet of Marie Antoinette; Dr. Johnson dipped his pen in this very inkwell. My father used to be a schoolteacher. Now he’s a chancer. He’ll bet on anything: horses, dogs, which of his children will go to rack and ruin first. He’s the kind of person who tells everyone else in the cinema to shut up and then chats away for the rest of the film. I take after both of them.” “Do you mean that?” Zeke said. She stopped and looked at him, eyes flickering. “Yes and no. You know how it is. You make every effort not to be like your parents and then you catch yourself tying your shoelaces in exactly the fussy way that your mother does. Or, even worse, doing something you don’t really want to do—leaving a huge tip after a bad meal—just to be different from them.” She didn’t mention Ms. F., nor did he. Every so often, Zeke would catch himself wondering whether she really existed. Then he would turn around—or her mother would—and there she was. At lunchtime, she opened a tin of tomato soup and he made cheese sandwiches. They worked on through the darkening afternoon. Oughtn’t she to take a rest? he asked. They could finish the lining paper tomorrow. But she shrugged off the suggestion. The street lights came on, buzzy amber splodges, and in the houses opposite curtains were drawn. He bungled the last piece of paper, an awkward corner, then bungled it again. “If at first you don’t succeed,” she chanted from the foot of the ladder, “try, try, and try again. That was my English teacher’s favorite saying: Robert the Bruce and his stupid spider.” Two years ago, even one, he might have presumed himself the spider, vermin to be trampled underfoot; today he recognized encouragement. He mounted the ladder once again and, while she described the Scottish king, hiding in a cave, drawing inspiration from the arachnid’s repeated efforts to anchor its web, he smoothed the top of the paper into place and, slowly descending, pressed the seams together. Now what? he thought, glancing around the neatly papered room. Dismissal? “Can you make a fire,” she said, “while I forage?” “A fire?” He saw himself soaking the dust sheets with petrol, the whoompf of flame engulfing the mute furniture. But then she pointed at the fireplace, the grate messy with cinders. Investigation proved that the Barrows had supplies. He rolled newspapers, added kindling, fire lighter, and coal, tasks he hadn’t performed since leaving drafty Brighton. Meanwhile, from the kitchen came various sounds, some recognizable, some not. When he went in, she was at the stove, stirring a saucepan. “Frozen lasagna,” she announced. “Tinned spinach, fresh carrots. There’s beer in the cupboard under the stairs.” “Thanks. I think I’ll have some Ribena.” “Don’t you drink?” “Not often. It makes me . . .” He hesitated between “weird” and “stupid” and eventually chose the latter. “Not so stupid you don’t know it.” She reached for a glass, and he saw the froth of beer. Stop, he wanted to say. Ms. F. doesn’t deserve to start life with a hangover. But before he could think of a polite way, or indeed any way, to voice his concern she was shouting, “Fuck, fuck.” He watched in amazement as she grabbed the saucepan and banged it against the stove, once, twice. Carrots flew. And then he was in the hall. He had seen her wet lips stretched wide, her eyes starting out of her head, not gestures that had appeared on the poster but, combined with the shouting, fairly unequivocal. In the living room he bent to tend the fire, fighting the desire to climb out of the window and never come back. The first flare of the kindling had died down and the coals were glowing dully when he heard her footsteps. “Sorry. I got a little carried away.” He could feel her standing behind him. Don’t touch me, he thought. Do. “I take my cooking seriously,” she said. “Even if it is just tins. What makes you angry?” You drinking beer, Emmanuel being a wanker, my life. Using the tongs, he moved a knob of coal an inch to the right, an inch to the left. “If I promise to be quiet, will you come back and keep me company?” She walked away, not waiting for an answer, and he thought of all the tiny motions—the vertebrae one after another sliding against each other, the hip joints swivelling in their sockets, the tarsals and metatarsals flexing and straightening—that make up departure. Yet the most mysterious motion, the one that couldn’t be named or diagrammed, was what spilled a mood into a room. How he knew, with absolute certainty, that she wasn’t taking his answer for granted, but simply leaving him alone to figure it out. As he sat back down at the kitchen table, she was peering into the oven. “Is there a reason,” she said, “for upstairs to be plunged in Stygian gloom?” He told her about the five light bulbs of the day before. “Interesting.” She turned, cheeks flushed from anger or the oven, to face him. “I’m O.K. with appliances, usually. But I can’t wear a watch for more than a day or two before it goes haywire. Apparently, I make my own electricity.” They ate off a card table in front of the fire in the freshly papered room. She had found candles in the cutlery drawer, and in their light the ladder cast a hangman’s shadow. They talked about computers, and whether a person could ever really disappear, and if life was better in Papua, New Guinea. She told a story about her grandfather, who had fought in the First World War. Then, at last, she spoke about herself, but almost, Zeke noticed, as if she were talking about another person. Well, that was something he understood. He often felt as if the events in his life, the things people claimed he’d said and done, were really part of a stranger’s story. His biology teacher at school had explained that the cells in the body are replaced every seven years. No wonder we don’t always feel like our old selves. “Once, years ago, I had a friend. She was the opposite of me: tiny, neat, ferociously ironic. We shared an office at my first real job, and three or four nights a week we’d go out for a drink after work. I couldn’t get enough of her company.” He watched her lips, her eyes, her cheeks, the muscles of her throat and her forehead, and fewer and fewer of her words reached him. But when her story was done, the candles guttering, the fire dying, her face wore an expression that he understood. He took her hand. “You did what you could,” he said, and squeezed her palm against his own. The effort of consolation made him bold. Her face changed inexplicably, the light in her eyes leaping and fading. Had he done something wrong? Then he understood. With his free hand, he snuffed the flames. She rose to her feet, the whole magnificent swell of her, pulled him to his feet, and led him up the stairs. “Help me,” she said, presenting the overalls. Soon she was naked, ample and unabashed. Beside her Zeke felt pallid, sticklike. Can this be happening? he thought. Then she was pulling back the covers, and he was lost. Ms. F., fully acknowledged, never mentioned, lay between them. Hours, days, weeks later she said, “I have to tell you something.” For a moment she was silent, and he pictured, in the darkness, her eyebrows drawing together. “I’m no more Mr. Barrow’s niece than I am a cavalier.” She made a little rasping sound. “Actually, I’ve never laid eyes on either of the Barrows. A friend told me that the house was empty and I needed somewhere to go.” Even as she spoke, he was counting their contiguous places—thighs, hips, elbows, shoulders, floating ribs, biceps, calves—and wherever they touched he felt the slight tingling of her electricity. “It’s not fair,” he had told his mother one day after school. “I can’t lie like the other boys.” “Everyone lies,” she had said. “You’re just a slow learner.” Now he remembered how her face had changed when he asked whose niece she was. “I knew that,” he said slowly. “And don’t you wonder who I am? What I’m doing here? You saw what was in my suitcase, didn’t you?” He searched high and low, the spiral of his right ear, the knotted place behind the left temple, the hollow where his skull met his spine, the airy lattice inside his forehead, but he couldn’t find a trace of wondering. The Barrows had insurance. Let her take whatever she needed for herself, and for Ms. F. What he did find, regrettable but obdurate, was his old fear of the unfamiliar. “I have to go home,” he said. “I’m sorry. It’s not you. I just can’t handle strange houses.” She touched his cheek. The next morning, Zeke knocked only once before setting aside the fried-egg sandwiches—he’d asked for brown bread in an effort to offset last night’s beer—and sliding the blade of his penknife under the snib of the side window. He left the bag of sandwiches on the kitchen table and climbed the stairs, hoping to find her still in bed, hoping to slip in beside her and bring as many of his current cells as possible into proximity with hers. And this time, he thought, however stupid, however embarrassing, he would ask her name. The bed was unmade, empty and cold to the touch, the suitcases gone. At the foot of the bed the rug was rolled up and, spread-eagle on the bare wooden boards, lay the overalls, neatly buttoned, arms and legs wide, like an empty person. Only when Zeke tried to pick them up did he discover the three-inch nails that skewered the collar, pinned the cuffs and ankles to the floor. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
When I Woke Up This Morning, Everything I Had Was Gone	The man I want to tell you about, the one I met at the bar at Jimmy’s Steak House, was on a tear. Hardly surprising, since this was a bar, after all, and what do people do at bars except drink, and one drink leads to another—and if you’re in a certain frame of mind, I suppose, you don’t stop for a day or two, or maybe more. But this man—he was in his forties, tall, no fat on him, dressed in a pair of stained Dockers and a navy-blue sweatshirt cut off raggedly at the elbows—seemed to have been going at it steadily for weeks, months even. It was a Saturday night, rain sizzling in the streets and steaming the windows, the dinner crowd beginning to rouse itself over decaf, cheesecake, and V.S.O.P., and the regulars drifting in to look the women over and wait for the band to set up in the corner. I was new in town. I had no date, no wife, no friends. I was on something of a tear myself—a mini-tear, I guess you’d call it. The night before, I’d gone out with one of my co-workers, who, like me, was recently divorced, and we’d had dinner, gone to a couple of places afterward. But nothing came of it—she didn’t like me, and I could see that before we were halfway through dinner. I wasn’t her type, whatever that might have been, and I started feeling sorry for myself, I guess, and drank too much. When I got up in the morning, I made myself a Bloody Mary, with a can of Snap-E-Tom, a teaspoon of horseradish, and two jiggers of vodka, just to clear my head, then went out to breakfast at a place by the water and drank a glass or two of Chardonnay with my frittata and homemade duck sausage with fennel, and then I wandered over to a sports bar and then another place after that, and I never did any of the errands I’d been putting off all week—and I didn’t have any lunch, either. Or dinner. And so I drifted into Jimmy’s and there he was, the man in the sweatshirt, on his tear. There was a space around him at the bar. He was standing, the stool shoved back and away from him as if he had no use for comfort, and his lips were moving, though nobody I could see was talking to him. A flashlight, a notebook, and a cigarette lighter were laid out in front of him on the mahogany bar, and, though Jimmy’s specialized in margaritas—there were eighteen different types of margaritas offered on the drinks menu—this man was apparently going the direct route. Half a glass of beer sat on the counter just south of the flashlight, and he was guarding three empty shot glasses as if he were afraid someone was going to run off with them. The bar was filling up. There were only two seats available in the place, one on either side of him. I was feeling a little washed out, my legs gone heavy on me all of a sudden, and I was thinking I might get a burger or a steak and fries at the bar. I studied him a moment, considered, then took the seat to his right and ordered a drink. Our first communication came half a second later. He tapped my arm, gave me a long, tunnelled look, and made the universal two-fingered gesture for a smoke. Normally this would have irritated me—the law says you can no longer smoke in a public place in this state, and in any case I don’t smoke and never have—but I was on a tear myself, I guess, and just gave him a smile and shrugged my shoulders. He turned away from me then, to flag down the bartender and order another shot—he was drinking Herradura Gold—and a beer chaser. There was a ritualistic moment during which he took a bite from the wedge of lime the bartender provided, sprinkled salt onto the webbing between the thumb and index finger of his left hand, licked it off, and threw back the shot, after which the beer came into play. He exhaled deeply, and then his eyes migrated back to me. “Nice to see you,” he said, as if we’d known each other for years. I said it was nice to see him, too. The gabble of voices around us seemed to go up a notch. A woman at the end of the bar began to laugh with a thick, dredging sound. He leaned in confidentially. “You know,” he said, “people drink for a lot of reasons. You know why I drink? Because I like the taste of it. Sweet and simple. I like the taste.” I told him I liked the taste of it, too, and then he made a fist and cuffed me lightly on the meat of the arm. “You’re all right—you know that?” He held out his hand as if we’d just closed a deal, and I took it. I’ve been in business for years—for all but one of the years since I left college—and it was just a reflex to give him my name. He didn’t say anything in response, just stared into my eyes, grinning, until I said, “And what do I call you?” The man looked past me, his eyes groping toward the red-and-green neon sign with neatly bunched palm trees that glowed behind the bar and apprised everyone of the name of the establishment. It took him a minute, but then he dropped my hand and said, “Just call me Jimmy.” After a couple of drinks at a bar, after the subjects of sports, movies, and TV have been exhausted, people tend to talk about liquor, about the people they know who drink too much, fly off the handle, and wind up wrecking their lives and the lives of everyone around them, and then they tend to get specific. This man—Jimmy—was no different. Alcoholism ran in his family, he told me. His father had died in the streets when he was younger than Jimmy was now, a transient, a bum, useless to the world and, more emphatically, to his wife and children. And Jimmy himself had a problem. He admitted as much. A year before, he’d been living on the East Coast, in a town up the Hudson River, just outside New York. He taught history at the local high school, and he’d come to it late, after working a high-stress job in Manhattan and commuting for years. History was his passion, and he hadn’t had time to stagnate in the job like so many of his fellow-teachers, who went through the motions as if they were the walking dead. He loved sports, too. He was a jogger, a tennis player, and a mountain biker, and he coached lacrosse in the fall and baseball in the spring. He was married to a girl he’d met in his senior year at the state university in Albany. They’d had a son—“Call him Chris,” he said, looking to the neon sign again—and he’d coached Chris in high school, then watched him go on to college himself as a newly minted freshman at an Ivy League school. That was all right. Everything was all right. The school year began, and Jimmy dug out his notes, xeroxed study guides, looked up and down the class register and saw whom he could trust and whom he’d have to watch. In the mornings, before it was light, he ate breakfast alone in the kitchen, listening to the soft hum of the classic-rock station, the hits that took him back, hits he hadn’t heard in years, because Chris had always had the radio tuned to hip-hop or the alternative station. Above him, in the master bedroom, Caroline was enjoying the luxury of sleeping late after thirteen years of scrambling eggs and buttering toast and seeing her son off to school. It was still dark when Jimmy climbed into his car, and most mornings he was the first one in the building, striding down the wide polished halls in a silence that could have choked on itself. Fall settled in early that year, a succession of damp glistening days that took the leaves off the trees and fed on the breath of the wind. It seemed to do nothing but rain, day after day. The sky never swelled to flex its glory; the sun never shone. He saw a photo in the paper of a bare-chested jogger on the beach in Key Biscayne and felt reality slipping away from him. One afternoon, he was out on the field behind the school—the lacrosse team was scrimmaging with a bigger, more talented squad from a prep school upstate—and he suddenly couldn’t focus on the game. The assistant coach, no more than three or four years out of school himself, stepped up and took over the hectoring and the shoulder-patting, managed the stream of substitutions, and curbed the erupting tempers—discipline, that’s what Jimmy taught above all else, because in a contact sport the team that controls its emotions will win every time—while the clock ticked off the minutes to the half and the rain whitened to sleet. The sticks flashed, the players hurtled past him, grunting and cursing. He stood there in the weather, a physical presence, chilled, his hair wet, yet he wasn’t there at all. He was reliving an episode from the previous year, when his son had been the star player on the team, a moment like this one—the field slick, the players’ legs a patchwork of mud, stippled flesh, and dark blooming contusions. Chris had the ball. Two defenders converged on him, and Jimmy—the coach, the father—could see it all coming, the collision that would break open the day, bone to bone, the concussion, the shattered femur, the injury to the spinal cord, to the brain. The sound of it—the sick wet explosion—froze him so that he couldn’t even go to his son, couldn’t move. But then, a miracle, Chris pushed himself up from the icy turf, stiff as a rake, and began to walk it off. Jimmy awoke to the fact that someone was tugging at his arm. “Coach,” somebody was saying—it was Mary-Louise, the principal’s secretary, and what was she doing out here in this weather, the sleet caught like dander in the drift of her hairdo, which must have cost sixty-five dollars to streak and color and set? “Jimmy,” she said. “You need to call your wife.” Her face fell, the white pellets pounded her hair. “It’s an emergency.” He used the phone in the history chair’s office, more weary than anything else. Since Chris had left home, everything seemed to set off alarm bells in Caroline’s head—she thought she heard a sound in the front end of the car, the telephone had rung three times in succession but nobody was there, the cat was refusing to eat and she was sure it was feline leukemia, because she’d just read an article about it in the local paper. What would it be this time—a furtive scratching in the attic? Mold eating at the caulking around the tub? He thought nothing. Stared at the crescent of white beach on the marked-up calendar tacked to the wall behind Jerry Mortensen’s desk, as he dialled, and wished he could feel some sun on his face for a change. Florida. Maybe they’d go to Florida for the holidays, if Chris was up for it. Caroline picked up on the second ring, and her words burned a hole right through him. “It’s Chris,” she said. “He’s in the hospital.” There was no quaver, no emotion, no cracking around the edges of what she was trying to convey. “He’s in the hospital,” she repeated. “The hospital?” “Jimmy,” she said, and her voice cracked now, snapped like a compound fracture. “Jimmy. He’s dying.” Dying? An eighteen-year-old athlete with a charmer’s smile and no bad habits, heart like a clock, limbs of hammered wire, studious, dutiful, not a wild bone in his body? There had been a party the night before. The streets were slick, power lines were down, rain turned to ice, ice to snow. Chris was one of twelve pledges at Delta Upsilon, a party-hearty fraternity that offered instant access to the social scene, and it was the pledges’ responsibility to pick up the party supplies—beer, vodka, cranberry juice, chips and salsa, and bunting to drape over the doorways of the big white ocean liner of a house, which had belonged to a shipping magnate at the turn of the last century. None of them had a car, so they had to walk into town and back, three trips in all, over sidewalks that were like bobsled runs, the snow so thick it was coming down in clumps, and somebody—it was Sonny Hammerschmitt, twenty-three years old, fresh from four years in the Navy, and the only one of them who didn’t need a fake I.D.—suggested that they stop in at the Owl’s Eye and sneak a quick beer to get in the party mood. Chris tried to talk them out of it. “Are you kidding?” he said, a cardboard box bristling with the amber necks of tequila bottles perched up on one shoulder, while cars shushed by on the street and the intermediate distance blurred to white. “Dagan’ll kill us if he finds out.” “Fuck Dagan. What’s he going to do, blackball us? All of us?” A snowball careened off the box, and Chris almost lost his grip on it. Everybody was laughing, breath steaming, faces red with novelty, with hilarity and release. He set down the box and pelted his pledge mates with snowballs, each in his turn. Directly across the street was the bar, a nondescript shingled building with a steep-pitched roof that might have been there when the Pilgrims came over—ancient, indelible, rooted like the trees. It was getting dark. Snow frosted the roof; the windows were pools of gold. A car crept up the street, chains jingling on its rear tires. Chris threw back his head and closed his eyes a moment, the snow accumulating like a cold compress on his eyelids. “Sure,” he said. “O.K. Why not? But just one, and then we’d better . . .” but he never finished the thought. Inside, it was like another world, like a history lesson, with jars of pickled eggs and Polish sausage lined up behind the bar, a display of campaign buttons from the forties and fifties—“I Like Ike”—and a fireplace, a real fireplace, split oak sending up fantails of sparks against a backdrop of blackened brick. The air smelled sweet—it wasn’t a confectionery sweetness, or the false scent of air freshener, either, but the smell of wood and wood smoke, pipe tobacco, booze. Sonny got two pitchers of beer, and shots of peppermint schnapps all around. They were there for no more than half an hour—Dagan Drava, their pledgemaster, really would have their hides if he ever found out—and they drank quickly, greedily, drank as if they were getting away with something. Which they were. The snow mounted on the ledge outside the window. They had two more shots each and refilled the pitchers at least once, or maybe it was twice. Then it was the party, a blur of grinning, lurching faces, the music like a second pulse, the laughter of the girls, the brothers treating the pledges almost like human beings, and everything made special by the snow that was still coming down, coming harder, coming like the end of the world. Every time the front door opened, the smell of it took hold of you as if you’d been plunged into a cold stream on the hottest day in August, and there would be two girls, two more girls, in knit hats pulled down to the eyebrows and scarves flung over their shoulders, stamping the snow from their boots and shouting, “A beer! A beer! My kingdom for a beer!” Time contracted. One minute Chris and his pledge mates were scrambling to replenish the drinks and snacks on the big table in the dining room, everything reeking of spilled beer and tequila, as if a sea of it had washed through the house, from the attic on down to the basement, and the next minute the girls were gone, the night was settling in, and Dagan was there, cracking the whip. “All right, you dogs, I want this place clean—spotless, you understand me? You’ve got ten minutes, ten minutes and all the trash is out of here and every scrap of this shit off the floor.” The rest of the brothers were standing around now, post-party, working on the keg—the ones who weren’t off getting laid, that is—and they added jeers and head slaps, barking out random orders and making the pledges drop for twenty at the slightest provocation (and being alive, breathing, and present seemed provocation enough). Like any other healthy eighteen-year-old, Chris drank, and he’d tried just about everything at least once. He was no angel on a pedestal, Jimmy knew that, and drinking—the taste for it—ran in his blood, sure it did, but in high school it had been beer only, and never to excess. Chris was afraid of what alcohol would do to him, to his performance on the field, to his grades, and more often than not he was the one who wound up driving everybody home after the post-game parties. But here he was, dense with it, his head stuffed full of cellulose, a screen pulled down over his eyes. He moved slowly and deliberately, lurching behind a black plastic bag full of wet trash, fumbling with the broom, the dustpan, listening for Dagan’s voice in the mélange of shouts and curses and too loud dance music as if it were the one thing he could cling to, the one thing that would get him through this and into the shelter of his bed in the windowless room behind the stairway on the second floor. “Wait a minute, what’s this? Hey, Dagan. Dagan. You see this?” It was the guy they called Pillar, a senior who wore a perpetual look of disappointment on his face and was said to have once won the drinking contest at Harry’s Bar in Key West by outlasting a three-hundred-pound Samoan through sixteen rounds of mojitos. He was holding up two still-sealed bottles of Don José tequila. Dagan’s face floated into the picture. “I see what you mean, bro—the place just isn’t clean, is it? I mean, would you want to operate under these conditions?” “Uh-uh, no way,” Pillar said. “Not while these motherfucking bottles are sitting here. I’m offended. I really am. How about you, Dagan? Aren’t you offended?” Dude. That was what they called the drinking game, though Chris had never heard of it before and would never hear of it again. Dude, that was all, and the whole house was chanting it now, “Dude! Dude! Dude!’’ Dagan marched the pledges down to the game room in the basement, made them line up against the back wall, and handed each of them a shot glass. This was where the big-screen TV was, where the whole house gathered to watch the Pats and the Celtics and the porn videos that made your blood surge till you thought it was going to keep on going right out the top of your head. It was 2 a.m. Chris couldn’t feel his legs. Everything seemed funny suddenly, and he was laughing so hard he thought he was going to bring it all up, the beer, the schnapps, the pepperoni pizza and the chips and salsa and the Cheez Doodles, and his pledge mates were laughing, too. Dude, the funniest thing in the world. Then Dagan slipped the video into the VCR—“Bill & Ted’s Excellent Adventure”—and gave them their instructions, serious business now, a ritual, and no fooling around (“I’m serious, people, and wipe the smirks off your faces—you are in deep shit now”). Music, a flash of color, and there was Keanu Reeves, with his slice of an Asiatic face and disappearing eyes, playing the fool, or maybe playing to type, and every time he uttered the monosyllabic tag that gave the game its name, the pledge class had to lift the glasses to their lips and down a shot—“Hey, dude,” “ ’S up, dude”—till both bottles were drained. Benny Chung was the first one to break. He was seventeen, a National Merit Scholarship finalist, with narrow shoulders, wrists you could loop two fingers around, and a head that seemed to float up like a balloon from the tether of his neck. His shoulders dipped forward as if he were trying to duck under a low-hanging limb, then his lips pulled back and he spewed all over the floor and his pant legs and his black high-top Converse sneakers. It was a heroic effort, so much of that umber chowder coming out of so frail a vessel, and Benny had to go down on one knee to get it all out. Nobody said anything, and nobody was laughing now. Up on the screen, Keanu Reeves said the magic word, and all the pledges, including Benny, hammered another shot. Benny couldn’t hold it, though, and neither could Chris. Chris saw the look on Benny’s face—the outrage of an entire organism and all its constituent cells—and he felt his own legs buckling and the release the first wave of nausea gave him, and then he felt nothing more. All the Delts were swarming the room now, expostulating over this disgusting display, this pathetic showing on the part of a pledge class that wasn’t worthy of the name, and hands took hold of Benny and Chris, people shouting and jostling, the whinny of laughter, cries of “Gross!” and “Don’t get any of that shit on me, man,” the hands finding purchase at armpit and knee. They laid Benny and Chris side by side on Chris’s bed, then thundered back down the two flights of stairs to the game room. Half an hour went by and both bottles of Don José were drained by the time anyone thought to look in on them, and another ten minutes elapsed before Dagan Drava, a pre-med student, realized that Chris wasn’t breathing. “So he was drunk,” Jimmy told me, the band into its opening number now—blues, they were doing a blues tune that seemed vaguely familiar—“and who hasn’t been drunk? I’ve been drunk a thousand times in my life, you know what I mean? So I figure, all the way up there with Caroline hyperventilating and what-if-ing and driving me half crazy, that we’re going to walk into the hospital and he’ll be sitting up in bed with a sheepish grin on his face, one hell of a headache, maybe, and a lesson learned, but no harm done.” Jimmy was wrong. His son had choked on his own vomit, inhaled it, compromising his lungs. No one knew how long he’d been lying there in the bed next to Benny Chung without drawing a breath before the E.R. team re-started his heart, and no one was sure how much damage had been done to his brain functions. A CT scan showed edema of the brain tissue. He was in a coma. A machine was breathing for him. Caroline went after the doctors like an inquisitor, relentless, terrifying in her grief. She stalked the halls, chased them to their cars, harangued them on the phone, demanded—and got—the top neurologist in New England. Chris’s eyes never opened. Beneath the lids, like a dirty secret, his pupils dilated to full and stayed there, focussed on nothing. Two days later, he was dead. I bought Jimmy a drink, watched myself in the mirror behind the bar. I didn’t look like anybody I knew, but there I was, slouched over my drink, taking in air and letting it seep back out again. The woman with the deep-dredged laugh was gone. A couple in their twenties had settled into the vacant spot on the other side of Jimmy, oblivious of the drama that had just played out here, the woman perched on the barstool while the man stood in place, rocking in her arms to the beat of the music. The band featured a harp player, and he moved round the confines of the stage like a caged animal, riffling the notes till he’d gone all the way from despair to disbelief and back again, the bass player leaning in as if to brace himself, the guitar rising up slow and mournful out of the stew of the backbeat. “Hey, don’t feel sorry for me,” Jimmy said. “I’m out here in California having the time of my life.” He pointed a finger at the rain-streaked window. “All this sun really cheers me up.” I don’t know why I asked—I was drunk, I guess, feeling maudlin, who knows?—but I said, “You got a place to stay tonight?” He looked into the shot glass as if he might discover a motel key at the bottom of it. “I’m on sabbatical,” he said. “Or on leave, actually. I was staying with my brother—up on Olive Mill—but he got to be a pain in the ass. Caroline couldn’t take it. She’s back in New York. At least, I think she is.” “Hard luck,” I said, just to say something. “Oh, yeah,” he said. “Sure, and that’s the long and the short of it. But I tell you, I clean up real nice, and what I plan to do is pick up one of these spare women here, like that one over there—the dye job that looks like she just crawled out of a coffin? She’ll take me home with her, what you want to bet? And what you want to bet she’s got a shower, maybe even a Jacuzzi?” I didn’t want to bet anything. I wanted another drink, that was all. And after that I wanted to have maybe one more, at this place up the street I’d been to a couple of times, just to see what was happening, because it was Saturday night and you never knew. A week later—it was the next Friday, actually—I went into a place down in the marina for cocktails with a woman I’d almost picked up after I left Jimmy at the steak house the previous Saturday. Her name was Steena, she was five-ten, blond, and just getting over a major breakup with a guy named Steve whose name dropped from her lips with the frequency of a speech impediment. She’d agreed to “have a drink” with me, and though I’d hoped for more, I had to assume, after we’d had two glasses each of Piper-Heidsieck at twelve and a half dollars per and a plate of oysters, that I wasn’t her type, either. The whole time she kept glancing at her watch, and finally her cell phone rang and she got up from the table and went out into the anteroom to take the call. It was Steve. She was sorry, but he wanted to meet her later, for dinner, and he sounded so sad and heartbroken and shot through with misery and contrition that she couldn’t refuse. I had nothing to say. I just stared at her, the plate of desecrated oysters between us. “So,” she said, hovering over the table as if she were afraid to sit back down, “I guess I’m going to have to say goodbye. It’s been nice, though. Really.” I paid the waitress and moved up to the bar, idly watching the Lakers go through their paces with the sound muted and gazing out the window at the pale bleached forest of the ships’ masts gathered there against the night. I was drinking brandy-and-water, picking through a bowl of artificial snack food and waiting for something to happen, when I ran into the other man I wanted to tell you about. Shaq’s monumental head loomed up on the screen and then faded away again, and I turned around and there the guy was, just settling into the seat beside me. For a minute, I thought he was Jimmy—he had the same hangdog look, the rangy height, the air of an athlete gone to seed—and it gave me a start, because the last thing I needed the way I was feeling was another bout of one-way commiseration. He nodded a greeting, then looked up at the screen. “What’s the score?” “The Lakers are killing them,” I said. “I think. I’m pretty sure, anyway.” But this was Jimmy, had to be, Jimmy all dressed up, with his hair combed and looking satisfied with himself. It was then that I remembered the brother. “You wouldn’t be Jimmy’s brother, would you?” I said. “By any chance?” “Whose brother?” I felt foolish then. Obviously, Jimmy hadn’t given me his real name, and why would he? The alcohol bloomed in my brain, petals unfolding like a rosebud in time-lapse photography. “It’s nothing,” I said. “I just thought . . .” I let it die, and went back to watching the game. Helped myself to the snacks. Had another brandy-and-water. After a while, the man beside me ordered dinner at the bar, and I got into a conversation about recycling and the crime of waste with a startled-looking woman and her Martini-fuelled husband. Gradually, the bar filled up. The startled-looking woman and her husband went in to dinner and somebody else took their place. Nothing was happening. Absolutely nothing. I was thinking that I should move on, pick up a pizza, some takeout, make it an early night, and I could envision myself standing at the supercharged counter of Paniagua’s Pizza Palace, where you could get two slices with chorizo and jalapeños for three dollars and fifty cents, but instead I found myself turning to the man on my left. “You do have a brother, though, right?” I said. He gave me a long, slow, deliberate look, then shrugged. “What, does he owe you money?” So we talked about Jimmy, Jimmy’s tragedy, Jimmy’s refusal to accept facts, and the way Jimmy was running hard up against the sharp edges of the world and was sure to wind up in a coffin, just like his father before him and his son, too, if he didn’t get himself into rehab as his No. 1 priority. Then we talked about me, but I didn’t reveal much, and then it was general subjects, the look of the people on TV as opposed to the look of the flesh-and-blood people sitting at the tables at our feet like an undiscovered tribe, and then, inevitably, we came back to alcohol. I told him about some of my escapades; he told me about his. I was probably on my sixth or seventh brandy-and-water when we got back as far as our mutual childhoods lived mutually under the shadow of booze, though on opposite coasts. The brother was in an expansive mood, his wife and six-year-old daughter gone for the weekend to a Little Miss pageant in Sacramento, and the four walls of his house—or eight or sixteen or however many there were—inadequate to contain him. I took a sip of my drink and let him fly. He was three years older than Jimmy, and they had two other brothers and a sister, all younger. They had moved around a lot as kids, but one winter they were living out in Dutchess County, at the junction of two blacktop roads where there were a handful of summer cabins that had been converted to cheap year-round housing, a two-pump gas station where you could get milk, bread, and Coke in eight-ounce bottles, and a five-stool roadhouse called the Pine-Top Tavern, with a jukebox and a griddle. The weather turned nasty, their father was out of work and about a month from bailing out for good, and neither of their parents left the tavern for more than a shower or a shave or to put a couple of cans of chicken broth in a saucepan and dump a handful of rice and sliced wieners in on top of it so the kids would have something to eat. Jimmy’s brother had a cough that wouldn’t go away. Their little sister had burned her arm on the stove trying to make herself a can of tomato soup, and the brother had to change her bandage twice a day and rub ointment into the exfoliated skin. Jimmy spent his time out in the weed-blistered lot behind the house, kicking a football as close to vertical as he could, over and over again, then slanting off to retrieve it before it could hit the ground. Their dog—Gomer, named after the TV character—had been killed crossing the road on Christmas Eve, and their father blamed one of the drunks leaving the tavern, but nobody did anything about it. It was just after Christmas—or maybe after New Year’s, because school had started up again—when a cold front came down off Hudson Bay and froze everything so thoroughly that nobody could stand to be out-of-doors for more than five minutes at a time. The birds huddled under the eaves of the tavern, looking distressed; the squirrels hung like ornaments in the stripped trees. Everybody in the family drank hot tea thick with honey and the oily residue of the bitter lemon juice that came out of a plastic squeeze bottle, and that was the only time their hands seemed to warm up. When they went outside, the bare ground crackled underfoot as if it were crusted with snow and, for a few days there, none of the converted cabins had water, because the lines from the well had frozen underground. Jimmy’s brother remembered his father, wizened forearms propped up on the bar in a stained khaki parka he’d worn in Korea, a sheaf of hair canted the wrong way because it hadn’t seen a comb in days, the smoke of his cigarette fuming in the dark forge of the bar. And his mother, happiest woman in the world, laughing at anything, laughing till all the glasses were drained and the lights went out and the big-bellied bartender shooed them out the door and locked the place up for the night. It was cold. The space heater did nothing, less than nothing, and Jimmy’s brother could have earned his merit badge as a fire starter that winter because all he did was scavenge the skeletal forest for fallen branches, rotten stumps, and fence posts, anything that would burn, managing to keep at least a continuous smolder going day and night. And then he got up for school one morning and there was an old woman—or a woman his mother’s age, anyway—laid out snoring on the couch in front of the fireplace where the dog used to sleep. He went into his parents’ room and shook his mother awake. “There’s somebody sleeping out there on the couch,” he told her, and watched her gather her features together and assess the day. He had to repeat himself twice, her warmth and the warmth of his father beside her rising up to him with a sweet-sick odor of sex and infirmity, and then she murmured through her cracked lips, “Oh, that’s only Grace. You know Grace—from the tavern? Her car won’t start, that’s all. Be a good boy, huh, and don’t wake her?” He didn’t wake her. He got his brothers and sister out of bed, then huddled with them at the bus stop in the dark, jumping from foot to foot to keep warm and imagining himself on a polar expedition with Amundsen, sled dogs howling at the stars and the ice plates shifting like dominoes beneath their worn and bleeding paws. There was a pot on the stove when he got home from school, some sort of incarnadine stew with a smell of the exotic spices his mother never used—mace, cloves, fennel—and he thought of Grace, with her scraggle of gray-black hair and her face that was like a dried-up field plowed in both directions. He tasted it—they all sampled it, just to see if it was going to be worth eating—and somehow it even managed to taste of Grace, though how could anybody know what Grace tasted like unless they were a cannibal? His parents weren’t at home. They were three hundred feet away, in the tavern, with Grace and the rest of their good-time buddies. A few dispirited snowflakes sifted down out of the sky. He made himself a sandwich of peanut butter and sliced banana, then went over to the tavern to see if his parents or anybody else there was in that phase of rhapsodic drunkenness where they’d give up their loose change as if they were philanthropists rolling down Park Avenue in an open Rolls-Royce. One guy, hearty, younger than the rest, in a pair of galoshes with the buckles torn off, gave him a fifty-cent piece, and then his father told him to get the hell out of the bar and stay out till he was of legal age or he’d kick his ass for him but good. The next morning was even colder, and Jimmy’s brother was up early, shivering despite the rancid warmth generated by his three brothers and the cheap sleeping bag advertised for comfort even at five below zero, which might as well have been made of shredded newspaper for all the good it did. He put the kettle on to boil so they could have tea and instant oatmeal to fortify them out there in the wind while they were waiting for the school bus to come shunting down the hill with its headlights reduced to vestigial eyes and the driver propped up behind the black windshield like a blind cave fish given human form. The house was dark but for the overhead light in the kitchen. There was no sound anywhere, nothing from his parents or his brothers and sister, everybody locked in a sleep that was like a spell in a fairy tale, and he missed the dog then, if only to see it stretch and yawn and nose around in its dish. The kettle came to a boil, and he’d actually put three tea bags in the pot and begun pouring the water before he realized that something was wrong. What was it? He strained his ears, but there was nothing to hear. Not even the tick of the stove or the creak and whine of the house settling into the cold, no sound of stirring birds or tires revolving on the blacktop road. It was then that he thought to check the time. There was a clock built into the stove, foreshortened hands painted gold behind a greased-over plastic lens. It was 3:35 a.m. Jimmy’s brother could have kicked himself. He sat in the kitchen, shivering, and drank a cup of tea, wishing it would snow so they’d call off school and he could sleep all day. After a while, he decided to build up the fire in the living room and sit there on the couch and terrify himself with “Dracula”—he was only halfway through, though he’d started it at Halloween—and then maybe he’d drift off for a while till it was time to get up. He shrugged into his coat and went to the kitchen door, thinking of the punky wood he and Jimmy had stacked in the shed over the weekend. But then—and I was ahead of him here, because you’d have had to be as blind as a cave fish yourself not to see where this was going—the storm door wouldn’t give. There was something there, an immovable shadow stretched long and dark across the doorstep, and it took everything the brother had to wedge the door open enough to squeeze out into the night. And when he did pull himself out into the cold, and the killing, antipathetic breath of it hit him full in the face, he willed the shadow at his feet to take shape until he could distinguish the human form there, with her fixed eyes and the dirty scraggle of gray-black hair. “Grace?” I said. Jimmy’s brother nodded. “Jesus,” I said. “And your brother—did he see her there?” He shrugged. “I don’t know. I don’t remember. She was a drunk, that was all, just another drunk.” We sat for a moment, looking past our drinks to the marina and the black unbroken plane of the sea beyond it. I had an impulse to open up to him, to tell him my story, or one of my stories, as if we were clasping hands at an A.A. meeting, but I didn’t. I made a clucking sound, meant to signify sympathy and understanding, threw some money on the bar, and went out the door, feeling for my keys. What I didn’t tell him, though he might have known it himself, was that Jimmy had put his son in a crematory box at the hospital and put the box in the back of his Suburban and driven it home and into the garage, and all night, while his wife lay stiff and sedated in the big queen-size bed upstairs, Jimmy had hugged the coffin to him. I didn’t tell him that life is a struggle against weakness, fought not in the brain or in the will but in the cells, in the enzymes, in the key that DNA inserts into the tumbler of our personalities. And I didn’t tell him that I had a son myself, just like Jimmy, though I didn’t see him as much as I would have wanted to, not anymore. The fact was that I hadn’t wanted a son, hadn’t planned on it or asked or prayed or hoped for or even imagined it. I was twenty-four. My wife was pregnant and I raged at her, Get rid of it, you’re ruining my life, we can’t afford it, you’re crazy, get rid of it, get rid of it. She was complete in herself, sweet-faced and hard-willed, and mine was a voice she couldn’t hear. She went to Lamaze classes, quit drinking, quit smoking, did her exercises, read all the books. My son was born in the Kaiser hospital in Panorama City, eight pounds, six ounces, as healthy as a rat and beautiful in his own way, and I was his father, though I wasn’t ready to be. He was nine months old when one of my drinking buddies—call him Chris, why not?—came for the weekend and we went on a tear. My wife put up with it, even joined in a bit, and on Monday morning, when she had to go in early to work, Chris and I took her out for breakfast. The day beat down like a hammer and everything in the visible world shone as if it had been lit from within. We’d been up till four, and now it was seven, and while we were waiting for a table Chris and I ducked into the men’s room and alternated hits from a pint of Smirnoff we were planning to doctor our fresh-squeezed orange juice with. So we were feeling fine as we pushed the waffles around our plates and my wife smiled and joked and the baby unfurled his arms and grabbed at things in high baby spirits. Then my wife touched up her makeup and left, and right away the mood changed. Here was this baby, my son, with his multiplicity of needs, his diapers and his stroller and all the rest of it, and I was in charge. We finally hit upon the plan of taking him to the beach, to get a little sun, throw a Frisbee, let the sand mold itself to us through the long, slow-simmering morning and into the afternoon and the barbecue I was planning for Chris’s sendoff. The beach was deserted, a board-stretched canvas for gulls and pelicans and snapping blue waves, and as soon as we stepped out of the car I felt that everything was all right again. My son was wearing nothing but his diaper, and Chris and I were laughing over something, and I tossed my son up in the air, a game we played, and he loved it, squealing and crying out in baby ecstasy. I tossed him again, and then I tossed him to Chris and Chris tossed him back, and that was when I lost my balance and the black sea-honed beak of a half-buried rock loomed up on me and I saw my future in that instant: I was going to drop my son, let him slip through my fingers in a moment of aberration, and he was going to be damaged in a way that nobody could repair. It didn’t happen. I caught him, and held on, and I never let go. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
On the Streets	Arthurs ordered liver and peas and mashed potatoes in Strode Street. When it came, the liver didn’t taste good. A skin of fat was beginning to congeal on the surface of the gravy where the potato hadn’t soaked it up. The bright-green peas were more or less all right. He was a dark-haired man in his mid-fifties, with a widow’s peak and lean features that matched his spare frame, bony wrists protruding from frayed white cuffs. He wore a black suit, its black trousers being a requirement for a breakfast waiter, beneath a trim white jacket. “You want a pot of tea with that?” the elderly woman who had brought him his plate of liver inquired. She came back to his table to ask him that, her only customer at this time in the afternoon. Arthurs said yes. The woman wasn’t a proper waitress; she didn’t have a uniform, just a flowered overall folded over, tight on her stomach. Nearly seventy she’d be, he estimated, a woman who should be sitting by a fire somewhere, the heat bringing out crimson rings on her legs. He could sense her exhaustion, and wondered if she’d talk about it, if a conversation might develop. “Finishing soon?” he said when she brought the tea, speaking as if he knew her well, his tone suggesting that there’d been a past in their relationship, which there had not. “I go at three-thirty.” “Stop at home tonight, will you?” “Eh?” She looked at Arthurs with something like alarm in her tired eyes. Her hair was dyed yellowish, dewlaps of fat rolled over her neck. Widowed, he imagined. “Reckon I’ll stop in myself,” he said. “Best if you’re feeling dull.” The woman answered none of that. He wondered if he should follow her when she finished for the day. It was twenty past three now and he’d be ready to go himself by half past. He broke the Garibaldi biscuit she’d brought with the tea. Since childhood he had followed people on the streets, to find out where they lived, to make a note of the address and add a few details that would remind him of the person. The compulsion was still insistent sometimes, but he could tell it wasn’t going to be today. “There’s the television of course,” he said, “if you’re feeling not up to much.” “No more ’n rubbish these times,” the woman said. “Sends you to an early bed, does it?” Further anxiety invaded the woman’s eyes. Silent again, she stumped off. A pound and a few pence the bill came to when she brought it, food cheaper here when the busy lunchtime hours had passed. He’d known it would be cheaper, Arthurs reminded himself. Mr. Warkely came in and said don’t start another batch or there’ll be a clog-up in the dispatch room. So Cheryl turned the machine off and saw Mr. Warkely glancing at the clock and noting the time on his pad. Finishing a quarter of an hour early would naturally have to be taken into account at the end of the week. The Warkelys’ business was a small one, established three years ago in a basement, the retailing of scenic cards. Cheryl’s task was to work the machine that encased in strong plastic wrapping each selection of six, together with the one that displayed in miniature the scenes the pack contained. It was part-time work, two hours three days a week; there was also, mornings only, the Safeway checkout, office cleaning evenings. The Warkelys employed no one else: Mrs. Warkely attended to the accounts, the addressing of labels, and all correspondence; Mr. Warkely packed the packaged selections into cardboard boxes and drove a van with “WPW Greetings Cards” on it. What was called the dispatch room was where television was watched, with the Warkelys’ evening meal on two trays, evidence of their business stacked around the walls. “See you Thursday,” Cheryl said before she went, and Mrs. Warkely called out from somewhere and Mr. Warkely grunted because his ballpoint was in his mouth. “Thanks,” Cheryl said, which was what she always said when she left the basement. She didn’t know why she did, but somehow that expression of gratitude seemed to round off the couple of hours better than just saying goodbye. She banged the door behind her and climbed the steps to the street, a thin, smallish woman, gray in her hair now, lines gathering around her eyes and lips. She had been pretty once and still retained more than a vestige of those looks at fifty-one. Shabby in a maroon coat that once she’d been delighted to own and now disliked, her high-heeled shoes uncomfortable, she hurried on the street. There was no reason to hurry. She knew there was not and yet she hurried, her way of walking it had become. “You getting on all right?” The voice came from behind her, the question asked by the man she’d once been married to, and whom she’d thought of since as the error in her life. Always the same question it was when he was suddenly there on the street. She turned around. “D’you want something?” She spoke sharply and he walked away at once, her tone causing offense. She knew it did: it was because it had happened often before. She had never told him what her hours at the Warkelys’ were but he knew. He knew where her cleaning work was, he knew which Safeway it was. Five months the marriage had lasted, before she packed her belongings and went, giving up a full-time position in a Woolworth’s, because she’d thought it better to move into another district. She stood where he had left her, watching him in the distance until he turned a corner. “I don’t think you should have married me,” she’d said. It was more or less what Daph who shared her counter in Woolworth’s had been remorselessly repeating ever since the marriage had taken place, not that she’d admitted to Daph that things weren’t right. On the pavement she realized she was in the way of two elderly women who were trying to pass. “I’m sorry,” she said, and the women said it didn’t matter. She walked on, more slowly than before. When they married she had moved upstairs to his two rooms, use of kitchen and bath, the rooms freshly painted by him in honor of the change in both their lives, old linoleum replaced by a carpet. The paint had still been fresh when she left, the carpet unstained; she’d never begun to call herself Mrs. Arthurs. Later that afternoon, although he was not a drinking man, Arthurs entered a public house. Like the café in which he had earlier had a meal, it was not familiar to him: he liked new places. He took the beer he ordered to a corner of the almost empty saloon bar, where the fruit machines were at rest, the music speakers silent. There was a griminess about the place, a gloom that inadequate lighting did not dispel. At the bar, on barstools, two men sat morosely. A shirtsleeved barman turned the pages of the Star. The dullness Arthurs had mentioned in the café possessed him entirely now, an infection it almost felt like, gathering and clinging to him, an unhealthy tepidness about it. He sipped the beer he’d ordered, wondering why he had come in here, wondering why he wasted money. Time was when he’d have gone to a racetrack, the dogs at Wimbledon or White City. In the crowd, with his mind on something else, he could have shaken off the mood. Or he might have rid himself of it by getting into conversation with a tart. Not that a tart had ever been much good, any more than the elderly waitress would have been. He closed his eyes, squeezing back disappointment at being asked if he wanted something when all he was doing was being friendly with her. They might have sat down somewhere, on a seat in a park, flower beds just beginning to be colorful, birds floating on the water. She knew how it had been; she knew he’d gone there at last, today. In their brief encounter, she had guessed. People began to come into the saloon bar, another lone man, couples. Arthurs watched them, picking out the ones he immediately disliked. He wondered about phoning up Mastyn’s and saying he wouldn’t be in in the morning. A stomach upset, he’d say. But the hours would hang heavy, because he’d wake anyway at twenty past five, being programmed to it. And there’d be nothing to replace the walk to the Underground, and the Underground itself, and walking the last bit to the hotel; and nothing to replace the three and a half hours in the dining room until at half past ten he could hang up his white jacket and unhook his black bow tie. Since the hours of his employment at Mastyn’s had been reduced, his earnings solely as a breakfast waiter were not enough to live on, but he made up the shortage in other ways. Since childhood he had stolen. There was a telephone across the bar from where he sat, half obscured by a curtain drawn back from the entrance to the Ladies’. Noticing it, he was tempted again. But whoever answered at the Reception would grumble, would say leave it until the morning, see how he was then. The conversation would be unsatisfactory, any message he left for the dining room probably forgotten, and blame attached to him when he didn’t turn up, even though he’d done what was required of him. None of that was worth it. Why had she spoken to him like that? Why had her voice gone harsh, asking him if he wanted something? He had never asked her for money, not once, yet the way she’d spoken you’d think he’d been forever dropping hints. Music began, turned down low but noisy anyway because that was what it was, more a noise than anything else. The last couple who’d come in were noisy, too, laughter that could have been kept quieter. Both were wearing dark glasses, although there hadn’t been sunshine all day. All he’d wanted to say was maybe they could go to a café for a few minutes. No more than that, ten minutes of her time. Arthurs stared into the beer he hadn’t drunk, at the scummy froth becoming nothing. The sympathy she could call upon was a depth in her, surprising in a woman who wasn’t clever. He had been aware of it the first day on the stairs, when they’d got into conversation because he happened to be passing by. “You like a cup of tea or something?” she’d offered, her key already in the lock of the door; and he’d said tea, two sugars, when they were in her room. He told her about the lunchtime complaint in the dining room of Mastyn’s because it was a natural thing to do; she said she’d wondered why he looked upset and then said anyone would be, a horrible thing to happen. He repeated the remarks that had been made, how he’d stood there having to listen, how the man had demanded the manager, then how he’d said, “We apologize for troubling you,” when Mr. Simoni came over. Mr. Simoni had held his hand out but they hadn’t taken it. Arthurs wondered for a moment if, that first day or later, he’d told her this, too—that Mr. Simoni’s outstretched hand had been ignored. He couldn’t remember saying it. A dotted bow tie the man had been wearing, white dots on red, a chalk-striped shirt. The pepper had been ground over her risotto with a remark that sounded insolent, the woman said. The coffee had been cold. “Well, there’ll certainly be no charge for the coffee” Mr. Simoni’s immediate response was. Something special, this lunch should have been, the man said, and the woman called the lunch a misery before she threw her napkin down. They’d gone away, not knowing what they left behind. “Breakfasts only after this,” Mr. Simoni murmured to him while bowing and scraping to the people at the other tables, who’d gone silent. “Take it or not.” Beneath the thrown-down napkin Arthurs found a shopping list on a letter that had been half written and then abandoned, the shopping items pencilled on the space remaining. “Dear Sirs, An electric fire I purchased from you is faulty” had a jagged line drawn through it; there was a date in the same handwriting, and an address embossed in blue at the top of the single sheet. Arthurs reached into an inside pocket and took from it this same writing paper, now folded to a quarter of its size. Frayed at the edges, it was dog-eared and soiled, one of the folds beginning to give way. He did not open it out for fear of damaging it further: it was enough to hold it for a moment between thumb and forefinger, to know that it was what he knew it was, kept by him always. A year ago, he’d gone into a Kall-Kwik and had had it photographed twice, nervous in case one day the original might somehow not be there: he did not trust, and never had, any time that was yet to come or what might happen in it. He knew the address by heart, even in his sleep, in dreams; but who could tell what might happen to memory? Not that it mattered now, of course. He returned the folded paper to his pocket and stood up. Seven o’clock she finished in the offices; ten past she was out on the streets again. Five to six it was, and he sat for a little longer, thinking about her. For a long time before the day when she’d asked him into her room he’d seen her coming and going. They had passed often on the stairs of the house where his own two rooms were a flight above hers, cheaper than the other rooms because of their bad state of repair. He hadn’t known she was a widow, thinking ever since she’d come to the house a year or so ago she was unmarried. Apparently her husband had been a ticket man on the Underground. He left his beer, pushing the glass away in case a sleeve caught it while he was putting his overcoat on. He buttoned the coat slowly—black like his suit—then crossed the saloon bar and stepped out into the darkening twilight. The folded paper was not something to keep, not anymore, but even so he knew he could not destroy it. There was that, too, to tell her: the shopping list would always be a memento. Her encounter with her ex-husband had not particularly upset Cheryl. She was too used to his sudden appearances for that. As she emptied wastepaper baskets and gathered up plastic cups, uncoiled the long flex of her vacuum cleaner and began on the floors, she yet again blamed herself. She had been foolish. Lonely, she supposed, missing what death had taken from her, she had seen the man differently; it had felt natural, saying yes. On their wedding day, Daph had been a witness in the register office, with a man they’d fetched in from the street. Afterward they’d sat with Daph in the back bar of the Queen’s Regiment, and when a few people from the house turned up later they’d gone in a crowd to Bruce’s Platter, above the Prudential Office. They’d kept calling her Mrs. Arthurs, making a joke of it once the wine got going, but all that time he was very quiet until she heard him telling Daph about the old lunchtime complaint, and every few minutes Daph—outspoken when she’d had a few too many—saying people like that didn’t deserve a life. “You hear that?” he said afterward. “What your friend remarked?” At the time it had seemed ordinary enough that he should mention the complaint to someone else, that that terrible lunchtime should nag so, the wound of humiliation slow to heal. She had urged him to leave Mastyn’s, to find another post in a restaurant or another hotel, but for whatever reason he wouldn’t, stoically maintaining that being a lowly breakfast waiter was what he would remain now. She didn’t understand that, though she accepted that when you married someone you took on his baggage, and one day the healing would be complete. But on the night of her second marriage the baggage she’d taken on was suddenly more complicated. When they returned from the celebrations in the Queen’s Regiment and Bruce’s Platter her husband of half a day didn’t want to go to bed. He said it was hardly worth it, since he had to get up soon after five. But it was not yet eleven when he said that. Still vacuuming the office floors, Cheryl remembered the unflurried timbre of his voice when he offered this explanation, a matter-of-factness that, quite suddenly, made her feel cold. She remembered turning on the single bar of the electric fire she had brought upstairs from the room she no longer occupied. She remembered lying awake, wondering if the darkness of the bedroom would draw him to her, wondering if he was a man like that. But nothing happened except what was happening in her mind, the realization that she had made a mistake. As she slid her vacuum cleaner into corners and under desks, all that was there again, as often it was when, on the streets, her ex-husband once more attempted to enter her life. A man who was hurt was what he’d seemed to be during the time they had been getting to know one another. She’d told him about times in her childhood, about her marriage, and the shock of widowhood; he’d spoken of the censure he’d always felt himself subjected to, culminating in the lunchtime complaint he’d taken so hard. Small rebukes, reproof, blame in its different forms affected him, she was sure, more than ever was intended. From the first she had known that, when each new shade of his accumulated pain was revealed to her. Then, too, she had believed that the pain would ease, as it seemed to when she was with him. But even before she packed her things to go Daph said, “Your guy’s nuts.” Cheryl turned the cleaner off and wound the flex back into place. She straightened the chairs she had had to move out of the way, finishing one office at a time and closing the door of each behind her. She took her coat and scarf from the hooks in the passage and carried downstairs the black plastic bag in which she’d collected the wastepaper. She reset the night alarm. She banged the door behind her and began to walk away. “They ignored Mr. Simoni,” he said in the empty dark. “Mr. Simoni tried to shake hands with them but he needn’t have bothered.” She looked at him with nothing in her eyes. There was no flicker that they had been man and wife, as if she had forgotten. She had been everything to him; she could have sensed it from the way he’d been with her. When they had gone for a walk together, the second time they had, she’d put a hand on his arm. A Sunday that had been, a cold afternoon and she’d been wearing gloves, red and blue. Just a touch of pressure from her fingers, no more than that, nothing forward, but he’d felt the understanding there was. A waiter could tell you how people were, he had explained to her another time. She hadn’t known it; she hadn’t known how you could feel insulted, the amount people left beside a plate. Not that a breakfast waiter got anything at all. “I don’t want to stand here listening to you,” she said, and then she said he should see someone; she said she had asked him to leave her alone. “It’s just I wondered if I’d ever told you that, how Mr. Simoni held out his hand.” “Please leave me alone,” she said, walking on. Every plea she made to him was a repetition, already stale before she made it, and sounding weary when she did. She had lost touch with Daph when she’d moved to another district but Daph had made her promise to go to the police if she became frightened. “You could tell she was the kind of woman who complained,” he said. He’d put the coffee ready for her to pour out, but when he walked away she called after him that it was cold. You didn’t expect there’d be a waiter with soiled cuffs in this dining room, she said when Mr. Simoni came. Cheryl tried not to see when he rooted in a pocket for his wallet. It was worst of all, the grubby paper taken from his wallet and carefully unfolded, its tattered edges and the blue letters of the address offered to her as a gift might be. “Dear Sirs, An electric fire I purchased . . .” In the dark she couldn’t see but she knew the words were there, as the shopping list had been there, too, before its pencilled items had all but disappeared. “Please leave me alone,” she said. Walking with her, he said the café by the launderette was always open, people waiting there for their washing to be ready. “Quiet,” he said. “Never less than quiet, that café.” She could tell from his movements beside her that the paper was being folded again and then returned to the right compartment of his wallet. His wallet was small, black, its plastic coating worn away in places. “It’s hardly out of your way,” he said. They were alone on the street; they had been since she’d heard his voice behind her saying that the people who’d complained had ignored Mr. Simoni’s wish to shake hands with them. He always spoke first from behind her on a street, his footsteps silent. “I thought I might run into you today,” he said. “She’ll want to know about this morning, I thought.” He mentioned tea and she said she didn’t want tea at this hour. And then she thought that in a café she could at last raise her voice, drawing attention to his harassing of her. But she didn’t want to go to a café with him. When she’d found the small things he’d stolen he’d said nothing, not even shaking his head. When she’d packed her belongings he’d been silent, too, as if expecting nothing better, humiliation self-inflicted now. “Straight after I’d done at the hotel I went out there,” he said. “This morning.” He told her about the hotel people who’d had breakfast today, a slack morning, being a Monday. He remembered the orders; he always could afterward, even on a busy day, a waiter’s skill, he called it. He told her about the bus he’d taken, out through Shepherd’s Bush and Hammersmith and then the green of trees and grass beginning when Castelnau was left behind. Someone called out for the Red Rover pub and the driver shouted back that the Red Rover had gone years ago. There was a traffic hold-up at Upper Richmond Road and he got off and walked a bit. He’d been out there before, he said: Priory Lane, then left by a letter box. A dozen times, he said, he’d checked it out. They turned a corner and she could see the lit-up window of the launderette. She remembered the café he was talking about then, a little further along, with a 7Up sign in the window. “I’ve something to get washed,” he said. She didn’t go into the launderette with him. While he was there she could have hurried on, past the café, to where the buses ran. Any bus would have done, even one going in the wrong direction. But in the café, where an elderly man and two women on their own were the only customers, she carried from the counter a pot of tea and two glass cups and saucers, and then went back for milk. She waited then, blankly staring at the cup of tea she’d poured, taking the first sip, tasting nothing. She did not feel she was in a café, only that she was alone, anywhere it could have been; and then her thoughts began again. She had been drawn to him once: that reminder echoed, hardly anything else made sense. She watched him coming in from the launderette, the door slipping closed behind him. He looked about, knowing she would be there, knowing she wouldn’t have disappeared. On their table he laid out what he had taken from the pockets of his jacket before he’d put it into a washing machine: keys, his wallet, a ballpoint. He had thought she would ask about his jacket, where it was, why he wasn’t wearing it, but she didn’t. He stirred the tea she’d poured for him. It didn’t matter that she didn’t ask; his overcoat was open, she could see the jacket wasn’t there. “Three hours ago he’ll have found her,” he said. “A quarter past seven every evening he gets back to that house.” Cheryl stared at a cigarette burn on the table’s surface while he told her. He had rung the bell, he said, and the woman hadn’t recognized him when she opened the door. He’d said he’d come to read the meter, not saying which one. The gas man had been, no longer than a week ago, the woman had said, and he’d apologized for not having his badge on display. He’d pulled aside his overcoat to show the electricity badge on his left lapel. The woman hadn’t closed the door when he walked into the hall. A good ten minutes it was open before his hands were free to close it. “I blame myself,” he said, “for being stupid like that.” He added that he didn’t blame himself for anything else; he had stood there, not blaming himself, remembering the woman saying that his cuffs were grimy, complaining that the coffee was cold. He had stood there, hearing her voice, a vase of flowers he would have arranged on a table near the hall stand. Then he went to wash his hands in the downstairs lavatory, where coats and the man’s hats and a cap hung on hooks. In the hall he draped a tissue over the Yale latch before he turned it; and afterward dropped the scrunched-up tissue into a wastebin on a lamppost. Cheryl didn’t say anything; she never did. She watched while his overcoat was buttoned again after she’d seen he wasn’t wearing his jacket. A dribble of blood from the woman’s mouth had got onto his sleeve, he said, the kind of thing that was discernible beneath a microscope, easy to overlook. On one occasion he’d shown her a bruise he’d acquired on a finger while he was committing his crime; another time he’d shown her the tissue he had draped over the Yale, forgotten in his pocket all day. Once he’d said the second post had come, brown envelopes mostly, clattering through the letter box. While the woman was on the floor there’d been the postman’s whistling and his footsteps going away. “I didn’t take a bus,” he said. “I didn’t want that, sitting on a bus. The first food I had afterward was liver and peas.” The last time it had been a packet of crisps; another time, a chicken burger. Still silent, Cheryl listened while his voice continued, while he explained that ever since this morning he’d felt she was his only friend, ever since he’d washed his hands, with the man’s coats on coat hangers and the scented soap on its own special little porcelain shelf. A cat had jumped onto the windowsill outside and begun to mew, as if it knew what had occurred. He had thought of opening the back door to let it in, so that it would be in the hall when the man returned, and its bloody footsteps all over the house. She had never told Daph that it wasn’t fear she experienced when she was with him, that it wasn’t even disquiet. She had never said she knew there was cunning in his parade of what hadn’t happened, yet that it hardly seemed like cunning, so little did he ask of her. She had never said she knew it was her nature that had drawn her to go for walks with him and to accept his reticent embrace, that her pity was his nourishment. She had never wanted to talk to Daph about him. The Warkelys didn’t know he existed. He lifted the glass cup to his lips. She still did not speak. It was not necessary to speak, only to remain a little longer, the silence an element in being with him. He did not follow her when she walked away. He would finish his tea and pour another cup: on the streets again she imagined that. In the launderette he would open the door of a machine and release his sodden jacket from where it clung to the drum. He would spread out the sleeves and pull the material back into shape before he began his journey to the rooms where so briefly they had lived together. He would not, tonight, be offended by the glare of neon beneath which she now walked herself. Nor by the cars that loitered in their search for what the night had to offer. Nor by the voices of the couples pressed close to one another as they went by. Her tears, tonight, allowed him peace. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Wes Amerigo’s Giant Fear	Wes awoke suddenly in his bed. He did not hurt anywhere or need water. His wife, Helen, sighed and twitched beside him, as she had for sixteen years. He looked out the window and saw snow mounting on his lawn. The clock glowed midnight, an hour Wes rarely saw. Somehow he felt an emergency at hand. An unfamiliar dread filled his mind and lungs, a feeling that he hadn’t awoken by accident but been summoned like a minuteman to a war just taking shape. He stared at his wife, at the blades of her shoulders, the naked ladder of her spine. She slept without clothes always, a beautiful, strange accomplice. He wished, for the millionth time in their marriage, that she were a mystical being, that she could sense his concerns even in sleep and rise to solve them. But her head stayed down and facing away from him on the pillow. Wes got up. He was wearing only boxer shorts, but he didn’t reach for his robe. He didn’t want a robe, or warm milk. He wanted to dispose of his dread. He walked out to the landing and gazed down at the living room. Lady Macbeth, his younger daughter’s Irish wolfhound, was sprawled before the fireplace, in which some embers still glowed. Over the mantel hung a painting composed of black swirls, which Helen had bought in Paris during their honeymoon. The dog, the fire, and the art looked, as they always did to Wes, eerie and good together. They combined to form some meaning in Wes’s life, though he couldn’t have said what that meaning was. But as the wolfhound slept and the embers winked, the dread inside Wes grew. He went to check on his children. They were alive, of course, and asleep in their beds. Michael, fourteen, lay with his fists clenched at his sides, his body fighting puberty even in sleep. Michael had acne, a knife collection, and a love of brutal honesty. His archenemy, Anna, was twelve. Posters of Alvin Ailey covered the walls of her room, and her modern-dance teacher had told Wes that his daughter’s body could perform the incredible. The last room upstairs belonged to Pill, who was seven and very small, and who loved to pray. Pill had a more dignified name on her birth certificate, but everyone had more or less forgotten it. It wasn’t clear to whom Pill prayed, because she never addressed any gods by name, and Wes and Helen weren’t religious. But they often found their daughter kneeling in some corner, with her eyes closed. When asked about her prayers, Pill would laugh, but her laugh was light, and Helen knew enough not to try to dissect it. Wes worried more. He feared that Pill would become a nun. In fact, Wes had a whole category of fears reserved for his family, and as he stood shivering in the hallway, he reviewed them. He feared that Michael would stab himself or others. He feared that Anna would move to New York City and become a talented, emaciated lesbian. Chiefly, though, Wes feared the collapse of his and Helen’s catering business, which was on the brink of bankruptcy. Just last month, Wes had been forced to take out a third mortgage on the house, and financial woes circled in his skull every day like sharp-winged black dragons. Still, Wes’s dread this night somehow surpassed these anxieties. His fear wasn’t limited to one child, one house. It was a vast, treacherous feeling, the kind of fear that tugs like a tar pit at one man’s heart yet threatens to suck down the whole human race. A therapist might’ve diagnosed Wes as depressed. A cleric might’ve guessed that he lacked faith in God and humanity. But, standing half naked in his home, Wes didn’t call on outside forces for help. He put on a T-shirt and woke his family. “Is the house on fire?” Michael asked. “Did someone croak?” Anna yawned. “Who croaked?” Wes had assembled his wife and children in the living room. He fed logs into the hearth to re-start the fire. Lady Macbeth paced around the room, confused and alert. Helen sat on the couch in her bulky white bathrobe. Pill sat on Helen’s lap. Michael and Anna were on the floor. It was twelve-thirty. Wes faced his family. “Something’s wrong,” he announced. “Something’s missing.” “Money?” Michael asked. “Stock options? The family nest egg?” On several occasions lately, Michael had overheard Wes on the phone with Cecil Harkness, the mortgage-and-loan officer for Second Mountain Mutual Bank. Cecil had also been Helen’s sweetheart back at Second Mountain High School. He’d been a senior when Wes and Helen were sophomores. “Did someone break in?” Michael sounded hopeful. “Is there a perp?” Wes shook his head. “Oh, God,” Helen whispered. “The van?” The family van, an enormous Chevy with a refrigerated rear, was Wes and Helen’s livelihood. That night, it held eight thousand dollars’ worth of sirloin tips and Baked Alaska for the Nelson retirement party, the next afternoon. But Wes had bolted the garage door at ten, and Lady Macbeth would howl Armageddon if she heard it unbolt. “No,” Wes said. “What I mean is, I feel funny.” “Are you shrooming?” Michael asked. Anna tugged her mother’s foot. “What’s shrooming?” “Shroom.” Pill made engine noises. “Shroom, shroom.” “I feel—” Wes began, then stopped. The firewood crackled. Pill giggled. Wes cleared his throat. “I feel afraid.” Helen wrapped a quilt around herself and Pill. She understood that there was no burglar or gas leak in the house. In the face of such threats, her husband moved like the chef he was. His hands held tools and he made decisions. It was emotions, Helen knew, that challenged Wes, that made him stammer. “What are you afraid of?” Anna asked. “Did you have a nightmare?” “Anna has nightmares,” Michael said. “Shut up,” Anna said. “About Mr. Pants,” Michael said. “Shut up.” “Mr. Pants, Mr. Pants.” Anna elbowed Michael’s ribs. He punched her thigh. “Kids,” Helen warned. It was common knowledge that Anna’s dreams were haunted by a disembodied pair of trousers she called Mr. Pants. She had been traumatized by a scene in “Bedknobs and Broomsticks” where clothes flew around, tormenting the children. Ever since then, Mr. Pants had lurked in her subconscious, chasing her, threatening to wrap his legs around her. In her waking life, Anna was suspicious of clothing. Restrictive adult gear like bras and neckties petrified her. “Are you having a breakdown?” Michael asked. Lady Macbeth offered Wes her paw. He took it, staring at the tuft of red fur between her toes, an anomaly in her otherwise black coat. He remembered some advice of his mother’s. In a crisis, she’d said, remind yourself of what is true. “I’m thirty-nine,” Wes said, still holding the dog’s paw. “I’m a chef. I have a wife and three children and a dog. We live on Second Mountain in the Adirondacks.” Helen and the children waited. “My parents are dead. The earth revolves around the sun.” “Wes,” Helen said. “Two plus two is four. We had meat loaf for dinner. I’ve never been to Wales.” “Wes, for God’s sake.” Wes knew how he sounded, but he went on, blurting out the truth, about baseball, potatoes au gratin, the aurora borealis, searching for the one thing that would quell his anxiety. Anna whimpered, “Stop it, Daddy.” Michael said, “Paging Carl Jung.” Lady Macbeth began yowling. It was only when Wes’s voice rose to a brimstone roar that Pill crawled from her mother’s lap and climbed onto Lady Macbeth’s back. The dog wasn’t surprised, for she loved Pill as a horse loves its master. Pill was so small that Lady Macbeth had no trouble carrying her, and the girl often straddled the wolfhound’s back, riding around the house or the neighborhood. Tonight, though, Pill boosted herself onto the dog’s back and stood at her full height, eye to eye with Wes. She placed two fingers over her father’s mouth, quieting his tirade. “Don’t worry,” she said. The next night, a Thursday, it happened again. Wes bolted awake at midnight, a chill under his skin. “Stress,” Helen whispered. “Work-induced.” But the Nelson party had gone all right. And two hundred swordfish steaks for the Harkness-Ives wedding reception would arrive in the morning from Hyannis. “Insomnia.” Helen scratched her husband’s chest, which always made him sleepy. Wes had announced the night before that something was missing, but now he felt the missing thing coming, rushing toward him. “Jesus Christ,” Michael said, yawning. “Don’t swear,” Helen said. “Jesus Christmas,” Michael said. He and Anna were on the couch, on opposite sides of a Scrabble board. It was one-thirty. Wes had once again gathered his family. Helen was curled in the BarcaLounger, reading “Wuthering Heights.” She’d selected something charged, something creepy, because it fit the mood that her husband had created in the house. She watched him at the kitchen counter, chopping chocolate, making truffle cakes for the Harkness-Ives reception. Michael arranged letters on the Scrabble board. Anna read them. “ ‘Chubber’?” Anna said. “It’s British,” Michael said, “like bloke. It means a fat guy. I get twenty points.” Anna frowned. “If ‘chubber’ is a word, use it in a sentence.” Michael said, “That bloke is a chubber.” “Mom!” Anna said. “Enough.” Helen snapped her book shut. “That’s enough from both of you.” Tonight, Helen was as edgy as her husband. She’d fielded three separate calls that day from Cecil Harkness. Cecil’s eldest child, Tymalyn, would be the bride at the reception the Amerigos were catering that Saturday night, and for the past month Cecil had been calling Helen at least once a week to tweak the menu and flirt like a monarch. “The cocktail sauce,” Cecil had said that morning, “should have just a whisper of horseradish, Moxie.” Moxie had been his nickname for Helen when they’d dated, twenty-one years ago. “Uh-huh,” Helen had said. “Mind you, just a suggestion, Moxie. Just a dalliance. My JuJu’s stomach can’t handle anything wild.” Helen had closed her eyes, pictured Cecil’s wife, Juliana Harkness, who ran marathons, held charity balls. “We won’t serve anything wild,” Helen had promised. She stared now at the cover of “Wuthering Heights.” She was thirty-eight, she’d never been on a windy moor, and two of her children were throwing Scrabble tiles at each other. The third was riding a giant wolfhound into the kitchen. Pill steered Lady Macbeth up to Wes. “Lady wants a taste,” she said. Wes dolloped some truffle on the dog’s nose. Lady Macbeth licked half of it off. Pill dipped her thumb in the rest and put the thumb in her mouth. “That’s unsanitary,” Wes said. Pill squinted. “This needs Sheeno sauce.” According to Pill, all food tasted best when drenched in maraschino-cherry juice, which Wes kept in a vat in the pantry. “Duly noted,” Wes said, but he frowned. His daughter always looked too serious, with her rigid black bangs and skin like a winter moon. Her eyes, black as her hair, made Wes nervous. They focussed too intently on people. “Don’t worry,” Pill said. “Lady and I will make something tomorrow.” Wes petted Pill’s hair. At least, he thought, she’s wearing Snoopy pajamas, as a seven-year-old should. On Friday night, Helen made love to her husband. She worked her limbs around his body like a spell. When he dropped into sleep, she was sure he’d stay there till morning and wake relaxed and ready for the reception. Wes dreamed of lightning. The Amerigos’ house, built near the rocky pinnacle of Second Mountain, suffered the whims of the sky, and Wes had recurring nightmares of tornadoes tearing his home to pieces. There was no carnage in his vision tonight, though. Some spectral lightning did strike his house, but instead of consuming his family and their rooms, it suffused the house with a glow so tangible that Wes wondered whether, if he opened his mouth, some of the light might land and melt on his tongue. He followed the glow to its blinding epicenter: his kitchen. Wes woke up shaking. It was two in the morning. “Come on,” he told Helen. In the kitchen, they found Pill kneeling on Lady Macbeth’s back, kneading dough on the counter. The girl and the dog were covered with so much flour that when they moved squalls of powder rose. All the baking pans and cake molds were stacked across the counter and the floor, each filled with pale, uncooked dough. “Pill?” Wes said. “Honey?” The little girl spread her arms like a hostess. “Look,” she said. “See.” “I see a mess,” Helen said. Flour lay in drifts on every surface. Sugar and salt crystals glittered in Pill’s hair. Spices—curry and cloves and who knew what else—were gathered in piles. “Bread?” Wes said. “You’re making bread?” Pill shook her head. Helen knelt, poked at the trays. “It looks like bread.” Anna and Michael appeared in the doorway. Michael raised his eyebrows. “Did something explode?” Anna prodded a tray with her foot. “What’s all this food for?” “Eating,” Pill said. “There’s forty pans here,” Anna announced. “Pill used forty pans.” “Helen,” Wes said, “please take Michael and Anna into the other room.” Michael scowled, narrowed his eyes. “Is Pill dead meat?” “What is that stuff?” Anna said. Helen scuttled her older children out as Wes plucked Pill off Lady Macbeth. He sat at the table, his daughter on his lap. “Send Lady out, please,” he said. Pill nodded, and the wolfhound vanished. “So.” Wes felt the queer tingle in his limbs that always came when he held Pill. It was a current that lashed out at a different target in Wes each time, sharpening his vision, untangling his thoughts about work or money. He never mentioned this phenomenon to Pill, or even Helen, because while it thrilled him, it also frightened him. When Pill played with other children, Wes felt relieved not to have sired a hermit. But he watched her, fearing the day that some neighbor would sound the alarm. Amerigo’s daughter touched my kid. Pill Amerigo zapped my kid. “Pill,” Wes said, “who’s all this food for? Why’d you make it?” Pill was perched lightly on Wes’s thigh, like a bird. She blinked at her father. “Daddy’s afraid.” Wes stroked her hair. “What am I afraid of?” he whispered in her ear. Pill giggled. “Fraidy cat.” The tingling sensation had chosen Wes’s nose tonight. An ambush of smells came to him: wolfhound hair, Pill’s honey shampoo, Freon from the icebox, oregano, ginger. These should have been mundane scents to Wes, the stuff of his days, but now they powered through him the way they might through a blind and deaf person. He gripped Pill’s floured hand. “What’re you doing?” he demanded. “What’s happening?” Pill didn’t giggle now. She squeezed Wes’s hand. “You’ll see,” she said. When the Amerigos catered at the Second Mountain Party Lodge, Wes cooked and Helen, Michael, and Anna served. Wes counted on this arrangement to charm up repeat business for the family. Women smiled at Michael as he poured Chardonnay, sullen and cute in his tuxedo. A single wink from a man would fluster Anna enough that she’d drop croissants and sprint for the bathroom. Pill was too small to carry trays, so she stayed in the kitchen. For a year or two, Wes had given her finishing duties—sprinkling parsley on potatoes, flaking Heath bars over ice cream. Then, one evening when Pill was six, a drunken guest had blundered into the kitchen, shouting that his wife had puked up her clams casino and where was the goddam chef. Wes was out in the van, so the first person the drunkard saw was Pill. He bent his florid face to hers. “Who makes the clams?” bellowed the man. “Who makes the clams?” Pill was paralyzed by the man’s noise, the beating blue vein in his temple. He snorted and stamped at her until a friend came in and yanked him back to the party. After that night, Pill had announced that her job was family security, and at all functions thereafter she rode Lady Macbeth around the kitchen’s perimeter. Anyone who barged in met a frowning wolfhound and her black-eyed jockey and usually barged right back out. If the person needed coaxing, Pill started shouting “Who makes the clams?,” which she’d adopted as her battle cry. The Harkness-Ives reception was a do-or-die night for Wes’s business. Both families were wealthy, and the guest list featured the plumpest wallets on Second Mountain. Plus, it was February, the time when all May-to-October brides- and grooms-to-be were choosing their caterers. Those couples would dine on Wes’s Swordfish Cilantro tonight, and if they weren’t pleased—if Wes didn’t lock up at least twenty gigs for the summer—then Amerigo Catering would be insolvent by tax time. “Where are Pill and Lady?” Helen asked. She was in the Party Lodge kitchen, fixing Anna’s hem, cleaning lint off Michael’s lapels. On catering nights, Pill wore black dungarees and a black T-shirt, like a concert roadie. “Van,” Anna said. Wes blew in from the pantry, where he’d been shelling a thousand shrimp. “Tables watered, Anna?” “Yes, sir.” “Rolled and buttered, Michael?” “Roger. Wilco.” The double doors from the dining room flapped open. Cecil and Juliana Harkness swept into the kitchen like Kennedys, all smiles and tailored dark raiments. Helen stared at Juliana’s fingertips, which looked exquisitely, almost surgically, lacquered. Wes tried to smile at Cecil, the boy wonder of Second Mountain High, 1981. Back then, Cecil had won prizes in both oratory and the long jump. Now he and JuJu funded Eritrean soccer camps. “We’re the first to arrive from the church.” Cecil took a deep breath, put his hand to his chest, as if crucial things were happening inside him. “Wes. Moxie. Our Tym has become a wife.” “What’s Moxie?” Anna asked. Juliana asked if everything was in order. “Absolutely,” Wes assured her. “You’re in for a feast.” Michael tapped Cecil’s shoulder. “Sir? In yesteryear, didn’t you and my mom make the beast with two backs?” Wes’s face crumpled. Helen turned scarlet. Cecil crossed his meaty forearms. “Well,” Juliana said. She bit back a laugh. “Michael Amerigo.” Helen pinched her son’s ear, tugged him toward the pantry. “It was just a question,” Michael said, grimacing. “A Shakespearean question.” Juliana smiled softly at Wes. She touched his sleeve, rolled her eyes. “Children,” she said sympathetically. When Wes eventually went to check on Pill, he found her sitting in the van. She had one arm around Lady Macbeth and one around the maraschino-juice vat, which Wes didn’t remember packing. “Here you are,” he said. “Come on, honey. Time to cook the steaks.” “The steaks are finished.” Pill pointed at the fridge bin. “Lady and I did finishing duty.” Lady Macbeth smiled at Wes, red ooze dripping from her teeth. “Look,” Pill commanded. Wes frowned, opened the bin. Icy smoke billowed. Inside, two hundred swordfish steaks and two hundred truffle cakes were drowned in sweet, sticky blood. “They needed Sheeno sauce,” Pill said. “Oh, God.” Wes grabbed a steak, rubbed it desperately with his thumbs. Even when the juice drained off, the fish was stained deep red. “It was Lady’s idea,” Pill said. The wolfhound barked. “Oh, my God.” Wes dropped the swordfish, rescued a truffle, still afloat in its foil dinghy. “Pill.” He turned on his daughter. His jaws locked. “Pill. Why did— Honey, Jesus. These dinners cost thousands. They’re ruined. I’m ruined.” “Lady and I shared a truffle, Daddy. It was good.” Wes knelt down opposite his daughter. Her face looked as calm as it had the day she’d come out of Helen, the day the doctor slapped her and the sound Pill made was more a laugh than a cry. Now she had cherry stains on her mouth and white truffle-cake icing on her black T-shirt. “I can’t believe this.” Wes flopped down onto the floor of the van, his head in his hands. He took deep breaths. The dread in his heart leaped, flipped, stuck a landing. “Damn it. God damn it, Pill.” Pill crawled into her father’s lap. “Don’t worry.” Wes felt action in his jaw again. He clenched and unclenched his fists. “Not everyone likes Sheeno sauce, Pill.” “I like it,” Pill explained. “What you did was wrong. Now I’ve got nothing to feed those people.” Pill giggled. “Yes, you do. Look.” The van was the size of a milk truck. Shelves lined both walls, and Pill and Wes sat in the aisle in the center. The shelves were deep enough to hold multiple trays. Pill was pointing at the middle tier of shelves, which Wes hadn’t filled for this occasion. “There’s nothing up there, Pill.” Pill stamped her foot. “Look, look, look.” Wes sighed, got up, looked. “See,” Pill said. The shelves were filled with the forty pans Pill had prepared the night before. “How’d these get here?” Wes said. “Cook them,” Pill said. “Serve them.” Wes snorted. “As an entrée? Bread?” Pill took her father’s hand. “Serve them, Daddy.” Without warning, Wes felt a new voltage in his mind, a switch in his instincts. It was no lobotomy of reason. He just accepted the fact that Pill had coördinated his doom. He shrugged, blinked, a man with no options. He looked at the pans before him. Well, now, he thought. “This is crazy,” Helen said twenty minutes later in the Lodge kitchen. Wes was loading the pans Pill had prepared into ovens, turning dials. Michael and Anna peeked in from the pantry, while Pill, on Lady Macbeth, stood at Wes’s side. “Make the ovens all the way hot,” Pill told her father. “Like a trillion degrees.” Helen gripped Wes’s arm. “We can wash the steaks.” “They’re ruined, Helen.” Wes shut the oven doors. He looked at his impossible daughter on her impossible dog. “Wes.” Helen used her careful voice. “We are not doing this. Those people out there—” “I’m sorry, Moxie.” Wes set his teeth, watched the pans through the ovens’ glass windows. “But if this can keep a certain someone from repossessing my home and my wife—” “No one’s repossessing me.” “Are you sure?” Helen crossed her arms. Wes wiped his sweating brow. In the pantry doorway, Anna was crying. “What’s happening?” Michael put his arm around her shoulders, squeezed. “Pill is dissolving our family unit.” “Holy mackerel.” Wes was still staring through the oven windows. He grabbed his wife’s elbow. “Helen. Look.” Sitting at the head table in the dining room, Tymalyn Ives, née Harkness, was a high-strung eighteen-year-old bride. She blamed this on her parents, who’d given her a name with a tomboy diminutive. When Tym was a girl, kids had teased her about her name, and the teasing had plagued her all through high school. By the summer after senior year, this abuse had lowered her self-esteem, which had caused her to drink too many Mickey’s Big Mouths one night last July, which resulted in a D.W.I. conviction, which made Tym cry and cling to her boyfriend, Jonathan Ives, which caused her to get pregnant, which caused her to get married. To make matters worse, the Iveses, who were Episcopalian, were unhappy with Tym’s choice of Bobby Monkey’s House of Funky as the disk jockey. Plus, Tym had a pimple on her chin and a twenty-four-hour crush on Kyle from Downstate, Jonathan’s best man, and all Tym wanted now, the only thing that could save her wedding, was the arrival of the main course, her absolutely favorite food: swordfish. “Jonathan.” Tym grabbed her husband’s wrist. “Jonny. What is that?” “What’s what?” “That. On that plate. On all the plates.” The P.A. system crackled. “Folks,” the d.j. said. “I, Bobby Monkey, will now lead you in prayer.” He whinnied like a drug addict. His real last name was Monkieski. “It looks like bread. Muffins.” Jonathan massaged his wife’s knee under the table. “I’m feeling very matrimonial,” he whispered. “We already had bread,” Tym said. “And shrimp.” Her eyes followed the trays that Helen, Michael, and Anna were carrying to each table. “Yum, yum, yum,” Bobby Monkey chanted, “munch, munch, munch. Thank you for the Cap’n Crunch.” Jonathan informed his wife that their honeymoon suite had a mammoth water bed. “Jonny, shut up, shut up. Something’s wrong here. Something’s fucked up.” Pill’s food did look like bread. It had risen in whatever container held it, fluffing and browning, and none of it had scorched. Despite its consistent color and texture, each batch was different. Some pillowed out of their containers like clouds. Others had sculpted themselves into the shapes of temples or mountains or even eagles, lions, and whales. Helen, Michael, and Anna carved these shapes, set a piece before each guest. The guests laughed. They sensed a ruse, looked to the head table. But the bride had tears in her eyes, and, as the hall quieted, she let out a shriek. Everyone froze. In the kitchen, Wes shivered. Over and out, he thought. Cecil Harkness stood, hands on hips. “Amerigo!” he bellowed. “Get out here!” Wes peeked through the double doors just as Tym swallowed her first bite. “Hey.” Tym’s face softened. “Hey.” She took more bites, and so did her guests. What followed reminded Wes of his youth, at Camp Schlappi, where he and a dozen other boys would line up holding hands beside an electric cow fence. The lead boy would close his fist around the barbed wire, and a pulse would shoot down to the last boy, convulsing each body along the way. The pulse smarted your nerves and heart, but your muscles locked onto it so tightly that unless you tore yourself from the vine of boys you’d stay there, twitching with invisible juice, maybe till you died. The wedding guests weren’t convulsing, but a current was running around the room. All the people, even the children, were chewing their food with shocked expressions, swallowing and beaming and having some more. Lady Macbeth, bearing her mistress, nudged Wes from behind. “Let us see,” Pill said. Wes opened the double doors. The rest of the Amerigos came over. Anna nodded at the guests. “What’s wrong with them?” “Pill drugged them,” Michael said. “Did not,” Pill said. “Pill slipped them a mickey.” “What’s a mickey?” Anna asked. “A sedative,” Michael explained. “A punk-ass downer.” Helen put her arms around her children, corralling their conversation. Together they watched the gorging guests, who were tearing down the temples and animals, cramming the food into their mouths. Wes touched his wife’s wrist. “Helen. Bring us a fresh pan, please.” Helen did. She brought out a warm loaf shaped like a swallow, and the Amerigos ate. Wes’s tongue ignited with the first bite. The food was every taste he’d ever known—apples, marijuana, saffron, tequila—and every memory he married to those tastes. He detected the flavors of childhood colas, of a rabbit, cooked medium, that he and Helen had savored in Paris, of the fried eggs he’d stared at the day his mother died. Webbing all these together was something delicious and beyond Wes’s vocabulary. The other Amerigos, though they ate from the same loaf, had different sensations. Helen tasted brandy on her tongue, and a future of kisses, kisses that Wes hadn’t shared with her yet. Anna tasted the sweat that slipped over her lips when she danced. Michael smelled the peppermint schnapps he’d choked down the week before with Marvis and Charlie Bunt. It was the mystery, though, the unnamed element of Pill’s food, that dynamized all alike. This element, like a radical atom, danced across the teeth of everyone in the room. It planted itself in their stomachs, bloomed in their minds. As Wes took this force in, digested it, he had an odd thought. His thought was that the world was a hungry swirl. The world was a mixture of cinnamon and wind and fire and lime and bone, and people needed to feed on these elements to endure life among them. But people also needed a spice, an ecstasy. Somehow, both substance and rapture were ingredients in Pill’s food. Kyle from Downstate stood on his chair, held up his plate. “This stuff kicks ass,” he yelled. This broke the room’s trance. Other people shouted, waved their food. “Tym, what is this?” “Who cooked this?” “It’s marzipan,” an Italian woman squawked. “Right?” Harold Ives, the father of the groom, lifted his table’s pan. “Ours,” he said solemnly, “is an armadillo.” “It’s a tortoise,” Pamela Ives said. “It’s marzipan, damn it.” “I taste dill,” a bridesmaid said. Cecil Harkness licked his lips as he ate. He looked unspeakably pleased. “I’m getting some raw-oyster action here, JuJu. Or ground rhino horn.” Bobby Monkey cackled over the microphone. “Magic beans, people. Magic beans.” “Find the chef!” the groom called. “To the kitchen!” the bride said. “To the kitchen!” the crowd chanted. Like a horde, they rose to their feet and surged toward the Amerigos, wearing dangerous smiles. Lady started barking. “Everyone back,” Wes said. As the crowd reached the kitchen doorway, the Amerigos moved back to the pantry, all except Pill. The wedding guests stopped abruptly at the sight of the little girl astride the giant, growling wolfhound. “Hello,” Pill said. “Where’s the chef?” the crowd said, panting. Pill waved at the faces. “I’m Pill. I’m seven. This is Lady Macbeth.” “Pill,” Helen said, “come away from there.” “Is he the chef?” Tym pointed at Wes. “We’re both the chefs,” Pill said. “Pill’s creating a diversion.” Michael held a paring knife against his thigh. “To the van!” Wes nodded. “Michael’s right. Let’s go.” Jonathan Ives blinked down at Pill. “You’re the chef?” “Well,” Pill admitted, “I ruined the truffles.” The Amerigos moved to the loading bay, which opened flush onto the van’s back door. “Wes,” Helen said, “we can’t leave Pill.” Wes looked back at his daughter, who was holding her hand up to the crowd. He saw that Pill had become the fulcrum of something immense. “She’s coming,” Wes promised. Michael clapped Helen’s shoulder. “Pill’s got our backs.” “Michael’s got a knife,” Anna said. “They’re getting away,” JuJu Harkness said. “Don’t let them go!” Tym cried. Pamela Ives said, “Get the recipe.” Tym shoved past everyone, and confronted Pill. Lady Macbeth bared her fangs. “Back, Lady,” Pill ordered. Both the dog and the bride took this as a command. Tym stopped shoving. Lady Macbeth retreated toward the loading bay. With each step the wolfhound took, the crowd advanced. Many had lost their smiles. “Please,” Tym begged, “the recipe.” “The recipe,” Cecil Harkness said. “The recipe!” the crowd demanded. “Who makes the clams?” Pill shouted. “Who makes the clams?” The crowd quieted. “What?” they murmured. “What’d she say?” The van roared. “Good night, everybody.” Pill hugged her wolfhound’s neck. “Home, Lady.” Lady Macbeth spun, reared like a steed, sprinted for the van. The crowd gave chase. At the bay door, Lady Macbeth launched into the van, landing on the fridge bin. Wes gunned the engine. The van raced off, with Pill still saddled on her dog, waving back at the throng. The next morning, as snow fell gently on Second Mountain, the Amerigos were at home, awake, in their kitchen. Pill sat calmly beside Lady Macbeth on the floor, where they were each having a bowl of oatmeal with Sheeno sauce. Wes, Helen, Michael, and Anna sat at the breakfast table, staring down at Pill, wondering what to say. A batch of Wes’s blueberry muffins stood untouched on a plate. “I—” Wes cleared his throat. “I guess we all experienced something of a—” He looked at Helen, and they both blushed. The night before, they’d shared a last piece of Pill’s food in bed. Then, on some wonderful, chaotic impulse, Wes had performed with Helen for the first time since college a sexual move they’d once dubbed Cramming for Exams. A knock sounded on the kitchen door. When Wes opened it, Barter Kincaid, features reporter for the Second Mountain Minute, snapped Wes’s picture. Around Barter’s neck were a pad and pen on a cord. “Your family’s famous, Wes. Any comment?” “No,” Wes said. Barter thrust his chin toward Pill. “Word is your daughter there served up some serious mojo last night, over to the Lodge. Heroin cakes. Acid bagels. Something.” “They’re not cakes,” Pill said. “They’re Pills. Like me.” “Pills. Huh. Cute angle.” Barter jotted in his notepad. He held his pen like a scalpel. “Anything else?” Lady Macbeth growled. “Our family doesn’t cook with heroin,” Helen said. “Or acid.” “Goodbye.” Wes shut the door and returned to the table. “Will Pill be incarcerated?” Michael asked. Anna bit her lip. “Is Pill sick?” Wes scooped Pill off the floor, into his lap. “Pill’s staying right here. She’s fine. She’s just special, that’s all.” “She’s gifted,” Helen said. “Am I gifted?” Anna asked. Helen nodded. “Of course, honey. So is Michael.” “How?” “Well, you have your dancing. And Michael has . . . comic timing.” “What the hell is that?” Michael demanded. “Don’t swear. It means you say funny things at the right times.” “How’s Pill gifted?” Anna asked. Helen looked at Wes. Sixteen years before, he’d proposed to her while they were driving on the highway, arguing about burial versus cremation. It had happened at 12:31 a.m. Eastern Standard Time. Helen had said, “Maybe,” as a tease, and then they’d kept arguing, Wes defending burial, which Helen had never believed in. When he said that he wanted to be buried not beside Helen but in the same coffin with her, ribs to ribs with her forever, Helen had said yes. “Do you know what your soul is?” Helen asked her children. “The part of you that floats.” Michael was chewing a muffin. “Well,” Helen said, “I think Pill was born with an extra-strength soul. That’s her gift.” “But what was in those things Pill made?” Anna asked. “I mean, where’d she get the recipe?” Wes turned Pill around to face him. “Pill, honey. Answer your sister. Where’d you get the recipe?” Pill yawned, stretched her arms. “From the part of me that floats,” she said. At noon, Pill saddled herself on Lady Macbeth. “Lady wants a look around,” she told her father. Wes frowned. Pill did this most Sundays, rode Lady Macbeth into town. She and the wolfhound cantered through Switchwood Park, bought licorice at Captain Hardware. Wes usually let Pill take these trips alone, because he suspected that they had to do with her prayers, her solitude. Also, Second Mountain was a small town, and even if it weren’t, given Lady Macbeth’s fangs, no one would ever trouble Pill. On the other hand, Wes thought, Pill had never jazzed up the populace as she had last night. “I’m coming, too,” he announced. The girl, her father, and her dog went to town. They ambled past the Main Street stores of Wes’s youth: Digby Sundries, the Happy Belly Deli, Topper’s Gym & Spa. As they walked, the denizens of Second Mountain appeared and accosted Pill. “Pill,” Sharkey Meager said. “Pill, revive my nose.” Sharkey had woken up unable to smell on New Year’s Day, 1987, and he’d tasted nothing since. Pill frowned. “I don’t know about noses,” she told Sharkey. “But if you want a Pill, come by our house later—77 Triphammer Lane.” After Sharkey came Preston Fort, who couldn’t stomach dairy, and Wendy Bunt, who couldn’t bear children. Young Trisha Sibley, the wretched bassoonist, waved shyly at Pill from the porch of Digby Sundries, while Andrew Wallace Wix, head chef at the Otter Inn, challenged Pill to a bake-off. Roy Kincannon, bloated and lonely, begged for something slimming. Pill told them all that they could come by the house if they wanted. Wes stopped Lady Macbeth on the sidewalk. He leaned down, peered into his daughter’s unknowable black eyes. “Pill.” “Yes, Daddy?” Wes inhaled and exhaled, not sure what to ask. “Pill, will those people . . .” Wes watched his breath make ghosts in the air. He remembered doing this as a child, wondering why the ghosts never stayed. “If those people eat what you make them, will they . . . get what they want?” Pill shrugged. “Hey,” a voice said. “Girl.” Wes looked around. He and Pill and Lady Macbeth were in front of the Masterpiece Pub. Hunched in a snowdrift beside the Masterpiece was Nox Vandermalley, dressed in garbage bags. “Hey, girl,” Nox said. Wes cleared his throat nervously. “Come on, Pill. Let’s keep going.” Nox Vandermalley had been born in Second Mountain with a dead eye, an empty black hole in his face, and he had no living family. If Nox had had a wandering or lazy eye, or the decency to patch over his darkness, the town might have understood, given Nox work or a wife. As it was, Nox was a drifter, bone thin and stubborn, and he lived in an old coyote den, in Switchwood Forest. He prowled into town on occasion, but if you passed him an idle good word it just got sucked into his dead eye like driftwood into a whirlpool. Lady Macbeth growled. “Hold, Lady,” Pill said. She remained on the wolfhound, just five feet from Nox. “What you want with me, girl?” “I’m Pill,” Pill said. “I’m seven. This is Lady Macbeth.” Nox grabbed his rump with both hands. “Yeah? Well, these are my buttocks.” “All right, Pill.” Wes put his hand to his daughter’s shoulder. “Let’s go.” “If you want to,” Pill told Nox, “stop by the house later—77 Triphammer Lane.” Wes leaned his head close to Pill’s. “No, baby,” he whispered. “I’m sorry. This man can’t come.” Pill turned to her father, and kissed him once, hard, on the lips. “Yes, he can, Daddy.” Wes stood still. His daughter’s kiss kindled in his mouth. It poured down his throat like tea, filled his heart. “Wow,” Wes said. He stared at the snow falling around him, the town he’d spent his life in. Before him was the Masterpiece, the pub where he’d first been punched. Half a mile away was Harkness Cemetery, where he and his wife had a plot. And inside him was his daughter’s kiss, telling him the truth. It was telling him that, Pills or no Pills, Eritreans might starve, and Michael would remain a wise-ass, and Nox would stay half blind and surly, and births and wars and kindnesses would stake their claims on earth. “Wow.” Wes laughed out loud. He stretched his neck, turned his hips. Some constriction inside him, some icicle that had been living in his spine, was gone. “Hey. You two. I’m still here.” Nox, covered in slush, glared at the Amerigos. “See you tonight,” Pill told the man. She spurred her heels gently into Lady’s flanks, and the Amerigos started off. “I’m still holding my buttocks,” Nox hollered. By evening, most of the Harkness-Ives wedding guests and at least another hundred people were queued up on the Amerigos’ lawn and down Triphammer Lane. Sharkey was there, and Preston, and Roy Kincannon, and a ragged figure in garbage bags. Despite the snow, the local scoutmaster, Robert Sibley, had set up tents, and inside these tents adults sat around glowing space heaters while children played games. Like soup-kitchen patrons or concertgoers, the crowd was prepared to endure. Through the Amerigos’ kitchen window, those on the lawn could see Pill, engaged in a flurry of activity. Flour was tossed in the air, pots and pans clanged together, and a large animal barked now and then from inside the white cloud. Because Pill had requested privacy, the other Amerigos were out on the lawn, too. Michael was in the back yard, trying his first joint with the Bunt brothers, while Anna, in a lavender snowsuit, weaved among the tents, dancing for anyone who would watch. Jonny and Tymalyn Ives were telling Helen that, given their newlywed status, they should really have dibs on the first batch of whatever emerged from the kitchen. Meanwhile, about thirty young couples were huddled around Wes, who stood beside a campfire with a calendar in his hand, giddily filling in reception dates. “Wes?” A smooth, booming voice jostled through all the others. “Wes? A word, please.” Wes looked up. Standing before him in a richly furred overcoat was Cecil Harkness, a fat manila envelope in his hand. Cecil ushered Wes to one side, kept his voice a secret. “I’ll give you five thousand dollars for the recipe, Amerigo.” Wes looked around him at the crowd, the carnival of need on his lawn. He breathed deep, felt fine. “Keep your envelope, Cecil. You’ll have to wait in line like everyone else.” Cecil raised his eyebrows. Wes pushed the envelope firmly against Cecil’s chest. “Keep it. And stop calling my wife Moxie. Her name is Helen. Helen Amerigo.” Cecil tried to protest, but Wes turned back to the hopeful couples. He turned back to them and those beyond them, the mighty, broken folk of Second Mountain, the masses waiting to taste, to laud, to mourn, to behold and savor their piquant, unpredictable selves. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Christie	When you met Christie for the first time, it took only minutes to learn that she was from Greenwich, Connecticut, but months could go by before you got another solid fact out of her. After a couple of years in New York, she realized that she had to give people a little more information to stop them wondering, so once she’d mentioned Greenwich she would quickly add that she’d gone to “the high school,” meaning the public one. The first time she said this, you’d find her forthrightness refreshing—disarming, even, in the midst of so many pretenders. You’d be prompted, perhaps, to admit something about yourself—the fact that you were doing Jenny Craig, for instance, and had to sneak the packaged food into your office microwave when no one was paying attention. But then you’d overhear Christie making the same confession to someone else, and it would lose its charm. It was just Fact No. 2, which, added to Fact No. 1—her childhood in Greenwich—represented the sum total of what could be stated about Christie Thorn’s background, about her entire life before college and New York. Plus, you couldn’t help being suspicious of her motives in revealing Fact No. 2. If, at a party, a group of people were standing around, sharing a corner of the room, and someone made an opening bid—mentioning Hotchkiss or St. George’s, say—Christie would always pointedly interject, “Oh, I wouldn’t know. I went to public school. Greenwich High. That’s right—I was a good old suburban kid.” Of course, Christie and the person who had mentioned boarding school were doing the same thing—preëmptively defending themselves against attack—and yet you were tempted to give the Hotchkiss guy a free pass. With him, you could figure that his parents had divorced badly, or his mother was an alcoholic, or his brother had committed suicide (or perhaps it really had been an accidental overdose), or that in keeping with the family tradition Dad had gone crazy and now spent his days in slippers and a robe shooting intricate, archaic forms of pool. On account of one or more of these family problems, the young man felt insecure about himself as an individual, and so, in situations of social challenge, he mentioned boarding school a little too early, and a little unnaturally, to shore up his resolve. Still, whatever his problem, whatever the big bad family secret, it was just the slightly burned edge on a cake that everyone still wanted to eat. How bad could those family problems really be, you’d asked yourself more than once, if, at the same time, you had a house on the Vineyard? How bad—if you had the gray shingles, the weathered shutters, the slanting attic roof, the iron bedstead, the needlepoint pillows proclaiming, “A woman’s place is on the tennis court!,” the batterie de cuisine of lobster pots and potato mashers from the forties, and the octagonal kitchen window, through which you could glimpse the dunes and smell the salt air—could anything really be? Meanwhile, you’d assume that Christie had more to protect, that her history was more embarrassing, somehow: a chronological downsizing of suburban homes (all of them, albeit, technically still in Greenwich), a cheapness in things like bedding and glassware, or four people sharing one bathroom with a standup shower. And you wouldn’t be wrong. The real story was simple, of course, simple and unnecessarily sad. Christie’s father had gone into business for himself and had cash-flow problems. That was all. No one had murdered anyone; there wasn’t a whiff of incest or abuse, embezzlement or even tax fraud. Mr. Thorn had owed money his whole life, but he paid his bills more or less on time, and, when he died, his life-insurance policy would pay off the mortgage on the house. He was an honest man with a clean conscience. Yet Christie’s conscience was not clean, and seemed never to have been. In a typical scenario from her adolescence, her father would plan a nice vacation for the family, then wouldn’t have enough cash to cover it, Christie would throw a tantrum, and her mother, who spoiled her, would somehow find the money to appease her. Christie would go on the vacation, but she would go alone, with a similarly spoiled friend. She and the friend would go helling around Key West, say, or Miami Beach, feeling worse and worse and worse and laughing harder and harder. And then, and this was the kicker, Christie’s mother would pick them up at LaGuardia (the friend’s mother could never be bothered) and would want to know—would have been anxious about, primordially concerned about—whether they’d had a good time. On the way back from one of these vacations when she was sixteen or seventeen, Christie and her friend checked in late and were bumped up to first class. They were separated, and Christie was seated next to a distinguished-looking older man. He drank Scotches and read a golf magazine, and, when the flight was delayed, the two became partners in peevish complaint, the man turning to Christie to include her in his “Can you believe this?” glare. Eventually, he asked her where she was from, and when she said, “Greenwich,” he looked at her with a kind of absolute approval that she couldn’t recall ever having inspired before. After that, whenever a flight of hers was delayed she’d shake her head and say, “Time to spare, go by air,” as the Scotch-drinking man had, and when she met people she liked to make sure that they knew where she was from. After college, after a prolonged phase of running around New York while drifting through a series of support jobs at big firms, and after she had slept with, I think, either fifty-five or sixty-five men, Christie found someone to marry. We spent a lot of time speculating as to who would be invited to the wedding (only a strange, angry girl named Mary McLean, who had made some Faustian bargain with Christie long before any of us met her, considered herself one of Christie’s real friends), but in the end everyone was invited—and to the Pierre, no less. Throughout the evening, Christie wore a look of incurable dissatisfaction. Her face was gaudily made up, as if for a school play or an ice-skating competition. At the reception, her parents seemed frightened. It was as if they had been instructed to keep their mouths shut at all costs. A guest would shake Mrs. Thorn’s hand in the receiving line and say, “Hi, I’m Jen Ryan. Christie and I were roommates at Trinity?” and Mrs. Thorn would nod, grimfaced, and say—literally—nothing. The groom’s name was Thomas Bruewald, and he was gawky and tall, with an oversized head and a unibrow. His parents were never identified. Apparently they were foreign. He had grown up half over here and half over there—in Bavaria, was it? Or Croatia? At any rate, it wasn’t Umbria or Aix or anywhere worth trying to lock in an invitation for. Bruewald had gone to one of those Euro institutes with the word “polytechnical” in the name. The champagne at the reception was a little too good, and some people had more than their fill and, by the end of the night, were making rude remarks. One guy said that Christie’s parents must have taken out a second mortgage to pay for the wedding. “Didn’t know you could get a second mortgage on a trailer,” somebody else said. And then, of course, you got “Hey, wait a minute! There are no trailers”—the crowd in unison—“in Greenwich, Connecticut!” But nobody said that the groom was funny-looking. You could pick on Christie for trying too hard, you could note the moment when Mr. Thorn took off his tuxedo jacket and started doing body shots with the bridesmaids, but you didn’t pick on the groom’s looks. You just didn’t go there. Christie herself was quite pretty. She had large, unflawed features and blond hair that was only a shade or two lighter than her natural color. She was also thin. And, in an age when Manhattan had been overrun by the kind of chain stores you’d find at a suburban mall, these attributes had kept her in dates for a decade and the word “beautiful” had been lobbed over her head with surprising—to some of us, disturbing—frequency. The groom had some kind of science-related job—engineering or drug research—that required a reverse commute to New Jersey. And, once the wedding was over, once the gift had been ordered (they had registered for everything but the kitchen sink, in anticipation, evidently, of dinners for sixteen at which oysters would be served and finger bowls required), once the thank-you note from Christie—Christie Bruewald now—had arrived, it seemed that only the sparsest smattering of social interactions was indicated, coffee or a drink twice a year. There was even some thought that the newlyweds would move out of the city. Christie had always talked non-stop about children (little trophies, one presumed, to fill up that bottomless pit of dissatisfaction), and the suburbs had been mentioned more than once. Christie’s new thing, at our biannual meetings, was to brag about her visits to Thomas’s family in Europe. It was mystifying—one would not have thought an “in” in the former East Germany particularly brag-worthy, and, in any case, everyone at the wedding had seen how cowed the guy was, how classic the trade they had made. Did she think we didn’t see her boasts for what they were? She started to slip into conversation the fact that Thomas’s uncle had a title, or had had one—she was vague on the details—and she mentioned that there was a castle in the family. Her Christmas card (sent yearly to all of us, even though we had not sent one to her in years) introduced the Bruewald family crest. It was all so ludicrous and pathetic, really, when they were living in a studio in a high-rise on York Avenue. “So why do you even see her?” my husband would ask. (I was married now, too.) “If she’s so awful, why don’t you dump her? Just don’t call back.” Like most men, he had no patience with these pseudo-friendships between women that drag on for years. The question bothered me, and in my head I came up with three reasons that I continued to see Christie Bruewald, née Thorn, at six-month intervals. First, I enjoyed taking note of her pretensions. I enjoyed seeing how far she would go. In a way, I had exulted in the family-crest Christmas card. I had put it up on the refrigerator and shown it to everyone who came over. I was dying, now, to see what would follow. When I met her for coffee, I went prepared with a mental tape recorder to catch her appalling lapses in taste—not so much for myself as to pass on to everyone else. Second, there were, I have to admit, sparks of humanity in Christie’s pretensions, and in her desires, that I felt were missing in the rest of my life. She had coveted a huge diamond ring. She had hoped to land a guy with money. She had wanted her wedding to be an extravaganza, a day she’d remember for the rest of her life. She wasn’t “over it.” She wasn’t over anything. She knew what she wanted, and she wanted the kinds of things that the marketers of luxury goods describe as “the best”—Jacuzzis, chandeliers, access to the tropics in the middle of winter. Third, and finally, what got me, I suppose, were the indications of humanity in Christie’s life that had nothing to do with her pretensions. The family crest on the Christmas card had been embossed onto a picture of the Bruewalds and their new baby in matching red-and-green velvet outfits. The little girl looked exactly like Thomas—an odd-featured brown-haired old man. She wouldn’t have the advantage of Christie’s looks, and, for someone as entranced by the superficial as Christie was, that must have been hard to take. You could say that I felt sorry for her. Still, despite my three reasons, a year or so after my own wedding I went through a period when I felt it was important to burn the fat from my life. Christie had begun to represent all that was wrong with New York—which, as usual, meant what I was tired of in myself. I wrote “Seeing people like Christie Thorn” on a list of things that were a waste of time, and when she called and left a message to start the back-and-forth that would culminate in our having lunch a few weeks later, I didn’t call back. Perhaps I ended it then simply because the interesting part appeared to be over. Though my own life still seemed to me a fount of infinite promise, hers felt blandly curtailed. I realized that there was a part of me that had almost wanted her to make it, on her own terms, whatever they might be. The sad thing about Christie’s wedding was that it hadn’t been outrageous at all; it had been just another overpriced New York wedding spearheaded by a bride with too much makeup on. I found it all too easy to imagine how her story would continue, how, inevitably, it would end. I lived with that story, kept the thread going in my mind, and added to it from time to time, when some event in my own life recalled Christie’s unhappy mixture of envy and drive, of self-promotion and apology. My version (wholly fictional) went something like this: Having married for money, Christie quickly discovers that she hasn’t married for enough. Realizing her mistake only deepens the dissatisfaction she feels with her life, and, in order to convince herself that things can still change, she has an innocuous little affair in the first six months of her marriage. The second affair, a year later, is not so innocuous. Thomas is doing as well as he ever has, but this is New York, and after their second child the Bruewalds are unable to afford a big enough apartment in the city and they make the move to the suburbs. (For Christie, Brooklyn, or a bohemian setup with the baby in the living room, has never been an option.) They buy a starter house in one of the less well-known towns of Westchester. They socialize a lot and their favorite friends are people like themselves, but who make a little less than they do, and are jealous of them for some other reason as well—Christie’s having lost the weight after her pregnancies, say. The kids are the usual product of a marriage like the Bruewalds’. They suffer from Christie’s frustrated ambition and their father’s subservience to it, and they end up angry and self-hating beneath a surface of entitlement. But the European influence helps to normalize them somewhat, and at least they know how to ski. When the children are grown and out of the house, Christie starts spending most of her time down at the time-share in Cancún, befriending other “party people,” whose spouses turn a blind eye. But she and Thomas never divorce because she’s afraid to be alone. That would be about the size of it. It would end in a sorry, grasping old age, marked by an incivility to service people (flight attendants, doctors’ secretaries) and a dye job that wasn’t what it used to be. It was what she deserved, wasn’t it? There is order in things, and people who spend a hundred grand on a wedding they can’t afford simply not to lose face should pay in some way. Who was she kidding? It will be clear from my iteration of Christie’s excesses that, as a couple, my husband and I have always prided ourselves on living within our means. When the time comes for us to move into a bigger apartment, we understand that staying in the city will mean living at the back of a building, in interior rooms that open onto shaftways. So it’s only for kicks, just to see what we’re missing, that we ask our broker to show us something fancy. We go prepared to look, to smile wistfully, and to depart, understanding that by any reasonable standards we have more than enough, and by any other standards we simply don’t measure ourselves. When, high up in Carnegie Hill, on our way into one of those hushed old buildings that face the Park, our two-year-old daughter falls in love with the doorman, we take it, laughing, with endless hope for the future, as a sign that the girl knows quality when she sees it. “You can see him on the way out,” we promise. “He’ll still be there.” Yet, when we fall in love with the apartment itself, we cannot take it as a sign of anything at all. It is smaller by a room than the others we’ve looked at; and costs more by . . . oh, about a hundred grand. Where are our wistful smiles now? Where is our comfort in reasonable standards? It is clear that we—and only we—are capable of fully appreciating the charm of this place. Who but we would actually enjoy the fact that the stove and the refrigerator appear, like the building, to be prewar? Who but we would keep the sixties-style wallpaper in the maid’s room? (The ghost of Christie Thorn shakes her head in annoyance at the broker: “Total gut job in the kitchen!” “No closet space!” “No wet bar!”) And then there is our daughter and the doorman, who is pretending to play hide-and-seek with her, while we stand wordless in the marble lobby, looking out at the green of the Park, doing sums in our head, reconsidering decisions of the past, decisions that might have netted us this apartment, pure and simple. Because now nothing else will do. The apartment is at the breaking point of our price range, and though on paper we can swing it, our broker calls that night with bad news: he’s shopped us to the board, and they are reluctant to consider anyone whose liquid assets are as low as ours. That fast, it’s over. We have been slotted into position. We know—and can laugh bitterly at the notion that this knowledge, in other circumstances, is supposed to be comforting—exactly where we are. A week after the bad news, I walk by the building, daughterless this time. A man emerges, then two schoolgirls in uniform. I put my sunglasses on to hide the fact that I am staring in an ugly, covetous way. How tortured and unpleasant I must look compared with the woman my age who comes out next, well dressed, well coiffed, followed by two children, a girl and a boy, who are followed in turn by two nannies. For an incredible moment, I mistake the woman for an older, more sophisticated Christie Thorn. Out of habit I am pretending not to see even this twin of hers (the way you ignore a man in a bar who resembles your ex-boyfriend), when the doorman’s greeting rings out—yes, as if in a dream—“Mrs. Bruewald.” “Hi, Lester.” He asks how long she will be, and the woman says, “Oh, an hour or two. We’re just going to go to the Park and do some shopping before Daddy gets home.” In a vile moment of Darwinian survival, I paste a smile on my face, and I call out, “Christie?” We went to an Italian restaurant on Madison. Kids and nannies were dispatched to the Park. It was an off hour, three or four o’clock, and I remember I almost hated to dirty one of the white linen tablecloths, which were already set for dinner. We started with cappuccinos, then moved on to glasses of the house white. Later, when we got hungry, the waiter brought antipasto and some bread, and to wash it down I had another glass of white wine and Christie switched to red. I was longing for a cigarette, and eventually I asked her, “Do you still smoke?” “My God, I’m dying for one,” she said, and took a pack out of her purse. We each smoked two. I should explain that it was one of those surreally springlike days at the tail end of winter, the kind of afternoon when you flirt with the mailman, the coffee-cart man, and the busboy, when you long for a new pair of open-toed sandals and a good excuse to sit in a café all afternoon, ignoring your responsibilities and getting drunk. Well, we had one. There was catching up to be done—husbands, children, careers, in a nutshell. From the beginning, I was drinking rather fast. All the information-sharing, I realized, was making me uneasy. I, who used to rattle off insouciantly all the good things that had happened to me, was guarded now. I had something to protect, it seemed. I held back, forming half-truths for every potential question Christie might pose—asking myself, “Will I tell her about that or not? Will I act as if everything’s fine or will I level with her?”—while she grew expansive with me, as she now could. The family crest was not a joke; it was not a sham. In some little town in the former East Germany, the Bruewalds were evidently a big deal. “All the money was tied up in this castle in Saxony—this huge, horrible, dark, awful house—and, the minute Onkel Guenther died, Thomas and I looked at each other and we were like, ‘We’re selling!’ It was like, before he died we couldn’t mention it, and the minute we got the news we never looked back. It was a done deal.” They had sold the Schloss, auctioned the furniture, and inherited the lot, except, of course, for what was in trust for Hildie and Axel. (It had occurred to me that although Hildie still resembled her father, her appearance would be seen, later in life, as distinguishing; people would seek ownership of those peculiar looks, the way they would those of a rock star’s eccentric-looking daughter. Only outsiders would make the obvious comments; insiders would know better.) In addition to the apartment on Fifth Avenue, the Bruewalds now owned a ski lodge in the Arlberg, a country house in New Jersey, and a mansion in Solln, which Christie described as “the Greenwich of Munich.” The sheer weight of the information had made me dizzy, but when she mentioned Greenwich I sat up and did her the one courtesy I could. I fed her the line. “That must be nice,” I said. “It must feel like home.” She drained her glass of wine, though she had already drained it once, and then she put it down and unexpectedly met my eye. She said, “You know, when we got the money I went out and got myself a two-hundred-and-fifty-dollar-an-hour shrink. I used to think I was a horrible person.” She wasn’t a horrible person, the shrink had told her; in fact, there was nothing wrong with her at all. We split a third glass of wine and then a fourth, making the waiter laugh. During the fourth, I told her why I had been loitering outside her building—not hoping to get something out of it, just wanting to ante up with something real of my own. Christie laughed, the way you laugh at something you don’t quite believe, and at first I interpreted her incredulity as an attack—that’s how defensive I felt. “Oh, for Christ’s sake!” she said. “You’ve got to be kidding!” I stared stonily at the table, the way I do when I’m both drunk and mortally offended. “No, no—listen. Thomas is on the board, and they owe him a big favor. This is no problem, no problem at all. Don’t believe what they say about the liquid assets. It’s just a way of keeping people out. Anyway,” she said, “I’ll tell them about your Mayflower ancestor.” “I told you about our Mayflower ancestor?” I said. “Of course you did!” She smiled. “The first time we met.” There was nothing I could do but turn red and finish the wine. Christie went to the bathroom, and I sat there flipping a matchbook over and over in my hand. I had an anticipatory feeling, as if I were waiting for a date to return, as if we might be planning to go back to her deluxe pad and make out on her and Thomas’s king-size bed. People had always said that Christie had a great body, and that’s the kind of body it was—firm, relentlessly fit, and offered up as a commodity for others to comment on. In the early nineties, she had been an aerobics queen, logging two, three hours a day at the gym; now, of course, she was into yoga and Pilates, but, “to tell you the truth,” she’d confessed earlier in the afternoon, “I kind of miss the screaming and the jumping up and down.” We had moved to the city at the same time—ten years ago now—and sitting there, playing with the matchbook, I tried to get a handle on what those ten years had amounted to. We had been single. Now we were married women with children. But, despite the italics in my head, I couldn’t seem to take it any further than that. My thoughts drifted to the apartment, trying again, I suppose, to notch the progress we had each made. If my husband and I got the place, we’d be cash-poor for a few years. With both of us working, we could bring in x amount per year, put y aside, and contribute z to our 401(k)s. But, even considering promotions and raises, there was a limit to x. X was fixed, and there was only t—time—to increase it. But time ate up your life. You could say, “In ten years,” “In twenty years.” But the problem was that then whatever it was would be in ten years, or in twenty years. A decade, two decades of your life would have gone by before you attained it. The fixity of x was the most bittersweet thing I had thought of in ages. Of course, it was comparing myself with Christie that had brought on all these thoughts. When she came out of the ladies’ room, looking as happy and drunk as I had felt a minute before, her innocence struck me like a storm. And I realized that what separated us, and perhaps had always separated us, was the understanding that I had only just reached: in life you can only get so far. I walked home with the good news for my husband and daughter. It seemed that Christie and I were going to be friends again, or friends after all, I should say. My husband would be dubious, to say the least. “The same Christie Thorn you told me you would never have coffee with again?” Nor would he like the idea of her getting us past the board; it would take a week to make him understand what had changed in the course of an afternoon and why it wasn’t the case that we were simply using her. Then again, I deserved a dose of his skepticism. I had carried on about her—had laughed in my best moments, but from time to time had been derisive, too, and even indignant. I asked myself, now, how I truly felt about all her pretensions. I went through them one by one—the wedding, the Christmas card, then little things, little remarks from her single days, her obsession with the “it” handbag every year, for instance. I came to the conclusion that none of it was worth getting worked up about. None of it was profound. As the shrink had evidently made clear, none of it had anything to do with Christie herself. On the contrary, I told myself, it was your problem. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Painted Drum	I was called upon to handle the estate of John Jewett Tatro just after his Presbyterian funeral. I went to make my appraisal of the contents of the house on an overcast morning in spring. The sky was a threatful gray, yet the willows blazed in tender bud, and drifts of wild-apple blossoms floated in the cavern pines. I kept the windows slightly open as I drove the back roads to the Tatro house, and breathed in the watery air. The Tatros had always been too cheap to keep up their road, and the final quarter mile was partly washed out, the gnarled bedrock exposed. Overgrown swamps and ponds lapped close to either side. As I bounced along, the frogs quieted momentarily, so that I seemed to be continuously pushing against a wall of sound. Once I stopped, the frogs began trilling again. Making my way up the flagstone walkway to where the Tatros' grandniece waited, I stopped a moment, caught in the vehemence. Spring in New Hampshire can be disorienting—virginal and loudly sexual all at once. The Tatro house was not grand anymore. The original nineteenth-century homestead had been renovated and enlarged so many times that its style was obscured. Here a cornice, there a ledge. The building was now a great clapboard mishmash, with aluminum-clad storm windows bolted over the old rippled glass and a screen porch tacked darkly across its front. The siding was painted the brown-red color of old blood. The over-all appearance of the house was ramshackle and sad, but the woman who greeted me was cheerful enough, and the interior was comfortable, though dim. We began my first, casual viewing. The rooms were filled with an odor I have grown used to in my work. It is an indefinable scent, really, made up of mothballs and citrus oil, of dust and cracked leather. The smell of old things. I noted that an inordinate number of closets seemed to have been added to the house during some period of expansion, even on the ground floor. The niece, whose name was Sarah, was a pleasant, square-jawed woman, with light-brown hair and blue eyes. She was in her mid-thirties, perhaps ten years younger than I am, and the sort of woman who volunteers to supervise recess or construct grade-school art projects. I knew the type. I had attempted to be the type. So had my mother. But our fascination with the stuff of life, or, more precisely, with the afterlife of stuff, had always set us apart. Mother had started the business, and we had run it jointly now for nearly two decades. We are fair, discreet, honest, and knowledgeable. We are well known in our part of New Hampshire, and well respected, I think. There is a certain advantage to our gender. More often than not, it is the women of the family who get stuck dealing with the physical estate, the possessions, and we are also women. We understand what it is like to face a mountain of petty decisions when in grief. As I sat down with Sarah, to formalize things over a cup of coffee, I felt the comfortable and immediate sense of solidarity that I often feel with other women at times like this—there is sympathy, of course, but also some relief. Finally, to get on with things! There is even some excitement at the idea of the task ahead. Cleaning out a house can numb you to the bone, but there are always discoveries along the way. Some are valuable—an original Shaker table under a coat of milk paint, a fabulous porcelain or saccharine but valuable old Hummels amid chipped salt-and-pepper shakers. Once, an old bucket forgotten in a pantry corner turned out to be a hand-painted Leder, worth thousands. First editions turn up, too: a signed Mark Twain, a Wharton, maybe a pristine Salinger—you never know what will surface from even the most unpromising pile. And then some discoveries are revelatory—diaries, packets of love letters, a case of antique pornography featuring trained ponies, certificates listing surprising causes of death or unknown births. The contents of a house can trigger all sorts of revisions to a family history. Behind my eagerness to take on the Tatro estate, there was also a thread of connection that reached back several generations. My mother and I specialize in Native American antiquities. In “The History of Stiles and Stokes,” a book published on subscription by our local historical society, there is an entire chapter devoted to the Tatro family, and within that chapter a paragraph about the great-grandfather of the most recently deceased Tatro. Jewett Parker Tatro had been an Indian agent on the Ojibwa reservation in North Dakota, where my own grandmother was born and where she lived until the age of six, at which time she was taken East and enrolled at the Carlisle Indian School, in Pennsylvania. There she had learned to sew intricately, to add and subtract, to do laundry, to scrub a floor clean, to read, write, and recite Bible passages, Shakespeare sonnets, Keats odes, and the Declaration of Independence. The Carlisle school was also where she fell in love. My grandmother had stayed in the East with the young teacher she married shortly after graduating, though she returned for visits and bore my mother on her own allotment land. But we have never really been Easterners. The connection between Tatro and the reservation was of interest to us because it wasn't uncommon for Indian agents back then to amass extensive collections of artifacts, and of course we had always wondered whether the Tatro house held such a trove. Although we'd had little indication while the last two Tatro brothers were alive (they died within two months of each other), and at first I saw nothing that would lead me to think that those closets held anything more exotic than magazines and clothing and phonograph records, there had been rumors. And to our knowledge a large-scale Tatro collection had never been donated to any local, state, or college museum. There were those many closets and the thick walls of the downstairs rooms. Also, there was the Tatros' character—there was certainly that—to consider. They were sharp, they were shrewd, they were flinty, calm cheaters and secret hoarders. They haunted tag sales. Bought food in bulk. Hitchhiked when gas was expensive, though they were not poor. Saved the rubber bands off broccoli and bananas, when they bought such luxuries. They boiled the sap from their trees and stole the corn from their neighbors' fields. They picked fiddleheads, tore fruit off stunted trees, shot and roasted raccoons. Each fall they bought and salted down a pig, devouring it from snout to hock over the course of a year. To my mind, the Tatros were the sort of cheap old Yankee bachelors who would keep a valuable collection of artifacts just because it had never occurred to them to part with anything. They would simply have hung on to their stuff—moldering, mothballed, packed away with cedar blocks—until Judgment Day. Curiously, perhaps, the house I live in with my mother is not cluttered. It's not that our vocation has made us snobbish. Rather, it is the constant reminder of our own mortality that reins us in. To strive to own anything of extraordinary value generally strikes us as absurd, given our biodegradability. Still, there are a few objects we've found irresistible. Their nature probably reveals that we are more captive to our background than we admit: a lustrous double-throated Maria Martinez wedding vase; an Ojibwa cradleboard, with a wrap of intricately beaded velvet; three very fine Navajo rugs; a bandolier bag that was probably carried by the last Ojibwa war leader, Bugonageshig himself; a few seed pots; several shaved-quill boxes; and some heavy old turquoise that must be continually polished. Yes, we'd like to leave our path to Heaven clear, to travel a spare, true road. Yet we're human enough. Sarah Tatro did not intend to let the house and its contents trap her. Over the cup of coffee—one of those thick diner-style white mugs, surely swiped from a local café by one of the uncles—she told me that she was anxious to clear the place out and put it on the market. I found her forthrightness appealing and, at the same time, the idea that the Tatro house would pass from Tatro ownership after nearly two centuries infected me with a faint melancholy. It is unusual for one place to remain so long in the same family—I was, surprisingly, tempted to try to dissuade her from breaking with the past and carrying on with, of all things, her own life. I controlled myself. I took out my notebook and began to make a rough list of the contents of the house. Later, I would be joined by two assistants, but I prefer to work alone at first, as does my mother. I like to get a feel for the things in a house, a sense of the outlook of the person who, though safely in the next world, still lingers in the arrangement and treatment of his goods. I like to make peace with the dead. I asked Sarah if her great-uncle had had any particular interest or collection that might require special handling or appraisal. “Oh, I don't know, there's just so much of everything.” She waved her hands. “So many old sets of dishes. And he owned a number of guns. Some of those are old. And then the closets on the ground floor go way back behind the walls. They're stuffed. So, really, it's anybody's guess.” I was on my own, and soon I was immersed in the pleasures of my job. The sorrows of strangers are part of my business, and, were I to examine my motives for choosing this line of work, I might find that from their losses I extract some bit of comfort—as though my constant proximity to death protected me and those I love. The furniture in the first two rooms on the ground floor was in adequate repair and quite good, though there were no “finds.” Predictably, the Tatros hadn't been bibliophiles, nor was there much in the way of decorative touches—lamps, vases, figurines. Yet the walls were hung with six nice paintings by local artists, and there was one oil sketch, a sort of pre-painting drawing, by Maxfield Parrish. That discovery alone would have made my day at any other time. In this case, it also indicated the Tatro tendency to hold on to things, as Parrish was well known and the work could easily have been sold. I tried not to get my hopes up, but when I opened the door to the first closet my fingers were clumsy with excitement. Quickly, I went through what I could see. The usual boxes of magazines. Piles of curtains and old and faded linen. A great many boots of all styles, reaching back for decades. Mothballed coats made of everything from wool to skunk fur. The closet went on and on, but soon enough I decided to leave it to my assistants. The next closet was stuffed with records. Mostly 78 r.p.m., swing or big band. I was beginning to worry that the rumors were just that, when, upon embarking on a wide bank of shelves built into a wall, I found the first indication of, it seems curious to say, life. Some estates come to life and others don't. Some holdings have little personality, others much. There is a moment I think of still, one I nearly missed. Years ago, I opened a small wooden chest containing what appeared to be handkerchiefs wrapped in tissue paper, just handkerchiefs, bearing the owner's initials: L.M.B. I was about to empty the box and scatter its contents among the linens, when I noticed a label. Pinned to each cotton, lawn, lace-trimmed, or embroidered handkerchief, I realized, was a carefully cut label with a date inked in ladylike script. A name, or names, were written. And occasions: “Teddy's Christening.” “Venetta and John Howard's Wedding.” “Teddy's Funeral.” “Brother Adamantine's Wake.” “First Opera, 'La Traviata.' ” “Broken Arm.” And far down at the bottom, perhaps the handkerchief that started the collection, a child's small square of fabric clumsily labelled “My Mother's Funeral.” I remember sitting with the handkerchiefs of L.M.B. as the rest of the work of pricing and sorting swirled around me. Here was a box containing a woman's lifetime of tears. I passed through several stages of emotion. The first was elation at the novelty of such an idea, and I felt the urge to show the box to my assistants. Next, I was swept through with irritation. I almost never think of non-Indians as “white”; after all, my own skin is pale. But I experienced a sudden jolt of prejudice that surprised me. Just like a white lady—so stingy with her tears she kept them, I thought. Then I recovered myself and sat a little longer, holding the box, which was very light, old varnished pine, and turning over one handkerchief after another. “Theodor's Precious Birth.” “Aunt Lilac's Deathbed Supper.” What was a deathbed supper? “Cousin Franklin's Wedding to Mildred Vost.” More funerals. The other workers left to tackle the next room, and it was then, sitting with L.M.B.'s sorrows and joys, that my own eyes filled with tears. There weren't many. I am not the crying sort anymore. But when I did feel that swell of sadness I reached immediately for one of the handkerchiefs, dabbed my eyes, and added my own tears to the box. Then I closed the box. I knew that what had happened was exactly right. “Tears Shed for L.M.B.,” I might have written on a scrap of paper. I'd have to buy the box myself now, but that seemed the proper close to the collection. I'd heard that the owner had become a ferocious bore in her old age, critical, churchy, and prone to making complaint calls to the parents of young boys who cut across her front lawn or spoiled her tulips. But that's what I mean by coming to life. The estate of John Jewett Tatro came into a similar focus when I made the acquaintance of a doll with a face of fawnskin and eyes of jet. I knew that the doll was something special the moment I put my hands on it. It was wrapped in faded red trade cloth and placed inside a shoebox. The shoebox had been mistakenly stored on a shelf of shoes, and when I opened it I caught an unmissable whiff of smoked hide—a smell that could only have accumulated, molecule by molecule, over the course of years. As I removed the doll from its wrapping, the fugitive taste of smoke vanished and there was the doll herself, exquisite. The perfectly cured hide that was her skin had somehow retained its softness, though from the faintly smudged darknesses on her arms and skirt I saw that she had been loved as a toy. Her red quill lips were stitched into a calm, amused smile, and her bead eyes were set at a lively angle. Her coarse black hair had been plucked from a horse's mane and divided into braids. Her dress was also made of tanned hide, decorated with bits of shell and the old antique beads called “greasy yellow” and “ruby-red whiteheart” and “German blue.” Her waist was belted with a woven sash. Attached to it, she wore a scabbard that secured a tiny skinning knife. Her moccasins were sewn with flowers, and a ring of trade silver made a bracelet on her arm. From her pierced fawnskin ears dangled miniature earbobs, hawk's bells so unusually small that they could have hung from the throats of warblers. She carried a thimble-size basket woven so cleverly that I laughed in pleasure. I brought the doll out at once, and showed her to Sarah. “Oh, there she is!” She took the doll from its wrapping and handled it with familiar tenderness, smoothing the coarse hair down and caressing the slender horsehair brows embroidered above the glittering eyes. “My uncles used to let me play with her if I was very good.” “She's very good, you know. Valuable, I mean. We should have a museum curator look at her.” “Yeah?” Sarah was surprised, but not particularly pleased. I think she felt the same way I did about the doll. It was personal—the delight of owning the doll had nothing to do with its worth. “Were there other things—American Indian, I mean—of that era?” I asked. “Did your uncles keep them all together somewhere? In a cabinet? Trunks?” “Oh, God, yes, I'd forgotten all about it. One of the Tatros way back lived with the Indians,” she said. “There was a lot of old beadwork and stuff. Come on upstairs, I'll show you.” On the way up the stairs, I tried to breathe slowly. There was an attic room, of course—a long, unfinished tar-papered hall lined with simple board shelves and stuffed with old suitcases. Most of the artifacts were kept in these suitcases, Sarah told me. There were also some larger things, wrapped in old bedspreads and horse blankets. We unveiled these at once—a cradleboard not as good as mine, large birch-bark winnowing baskets, a beadworked footstool, a drum. The suitcases held some precious examples of late-nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century bead-and-cloth appliqué work. There were moccasins, leggings, beaded ceremonial breech clouts, a vest, and two bandolier bags (in extraordinary condition, worth a great deal). There were also a number of lesser items—small purses of the sort once sold to tourists, a band for a headdress from which all the feathers had been removed, tobacco pouches, woven carrying straps and reed mats. We laid things out, unwrapped, on the tops of suitcases, draped off the edges of drawers and shelves, but stopped eventually. The collection went on and on. “Congratulations,” I said, and there must have been some degree of feeling in my voice. Sarah Tatro looked startled. “Congratulations for what?” “You can probably retire,” I said. “Or at least take a long vacation. No more early-morning wakeup calls.” “You think all this is valuable?” “Very.” Sarah dropped to a trunk and put her head in her hands. “You mean they were sitting on this all along?” I said nothing, and after a time she shook her head and laughed shortly, without humor. “They were so cheap they ate oatmeal for dinner. And they spread Crisco on their bread instead of butter. The taxes on this place had gone sky-high, of course, and they wanted to keep it. So they lived on nothing. But in the end . . .” Her voice lifted. “I have to say I think they enjoyed their stinginess.” And then she laughed with more ease. “They probably even enjoyed what they had here. You can see they went through these things. Checked them for mildew or bugs, I guess, rewrapped them. Set mousetraps. Look.” She showed me the date on a newspaper that had been used to cushion a little sweet-grass basket. “Last year's.” “That's fortunate,” I said. “The acid in the newspaper could have ruined that basket.” I moved closer to look at the little coiled and sewn basket, and that is when I stepped near the drum. I'm not a sentimental person. How could I be? I have seen the most intimate objects proceed to other hands, indifferent to the love once bestowed on them. Some people believe that things absorb their owners' essence. I stay clear of that. And yet when I stepped near the drum I swear it sounded. One deep, low, resonant note. I stopped dead, staring at the drum. I heard it, I know I heard it, and yet Sarah Tatro did not. “I'm getting out of here,” she said. “Too dusty. I'll be back later on this afternoon. I've got some errands in town.” And so I was left with Tatro's loot. I continued to stare at the drum, or what I could see, since it was mostly swaddled in a faded quilt. I'm not subject to imaginative fits, and I don't just hear things. There had to be an explanation. Something shifting to strike the skin. A change in air pressure. The quilt wasn't anything special, a simple collection of squares, machine-stitched and yarn-tied. I went over to the drum and pulled the fabric entirely away. The light in the attic came from two bare bulbs with pull chains, which cast harsh shadows. The head of the drum glared out, huge, three feet across at least. The moose that was skinned to make it must have been a giant. Yet there was something delicate about the drum, for it was intricately decorated, with a beaded belt and skirt, hung with tassels of pulled red yarn and sewn tightly all around with small tin cones, or tinklers. Four broad tabs were spaced equally around the top. Into their indigo tongues, four crosses were set, woven with brass beads. On the face of the drum, at the very center, a small bird was painted, in lighter blue. That was all. But the bird detail, the red flowered skirts, the tinklers, combined with the size of the drum, gave it an unusual sense of both power and sweetness. I drew a folding chair close, sat, and jotted down the details. My hand dragged across the page. This was the sort of find that should have thrilled me, but I was uneasy, anxious. I looked around. I set my hand on the drum and then I felt, pulling through me like a nerve, a clear conviction. It was visceral. Not a thought but an instinct. I covered the drum again and went out to make sure that Sarah had gone. When I saw that the garage was empty and I was alone, I propped open the back door and went straight to the attic. I bundled the quilt more tightly around the drum, and then I carried it out of the house, slid it into the trunk of my car, and hid it by pulling down the theft-deterring blind I always use when parking at big auctions. I worked the rest of the afternoon without thinking about what I'd done. When my thoughts flickered toward the drum, I veered away from any further examination. What I'd just done, or was about to do, was probably a felony and could ruin our business. The ease with which I had done it bewildered me. For a person who had not stolen so much as a candy bar all her life to walk coolly out of a client's house with such a valuable object might signal insanity. The beginning of a nervous breakdown. But I didn't feel that way. I felt quite lucid. And I wondered whether others who committed irrational and criminal acts felt this calm acceptance of a previously unknown part of themselves. Dusk was forming, blue and cold, by the time I arrived home. I left the drum in the car, wrapped in the quilt, underneath its stretched plastic curtain. I didn't want it in the house yet. I had to think—not about whether what I'd done was right. By then I had decided that I wouldn't have done it unless it was, on some level, right. And yet the explanation of this rightness swirled beyond my reach. My real concerns were whether I could keep the drum hidden and whether I'd get caught. I was pretty sure that Sarah Tatro hadn't noticed the drum; in fact, she'd seemed indifferent to all her uncle's objects, save the doll she had played with as a child. I was also fairly certain that she was the only person who would have any knowledge of her uncle's collection. And even she had forgotten that it existed. I'd had to take the drum that afternoon, if I was to take it at all. I knew that, once I had catalogued the objects and had them appraised, the drum would have priced itself out of the reach of all but the wealthiest collectors, or a museum. Yet I didn't want the drum. What would I do with such a thing? Where would I keep it? No, I hadn't taken the drum for myself. I reassured myself of this as I sat down to dinner with my mother. “You have an odd look on your face,” she said. “So, how was it?” I took the salad bowl from her hands and began forking leaves onto my plate. “Well, it was all there,” I told her. “Oh!” She put her fork down. I'd taken a mouthful of spinach, but suddenly I felt too tired to even chew. I slumped down in my chair. Then I threw my head back, stretched my arms. “I've been crouched over the notebook all afternoon. It's a real haul. Old—I mean old old—Tatro walked away with everything. Dolls, beadwork, cradleboards. You name it.” “So he got away with the good stuff. He had an eye.” We sat there with our food between us. My mother's hair, sleek and pulled back in a knot, was very white. She bore me late in age, when she had given up on getting pregnant. I was a gift. It's nice to be told, all your life, that you are a gift to someone. We were very happy right then, although I don't know exactly why. Perhaps it was just because our secret expectations had been met. “There was a drum,” I said to her. She pushed her plate away and leaned toward me, her elbows on the table. Her eyes were narrow and slightly upturned at the corners. The irises, dark brown, had the milky-blue ring of age, but her gaze was still sharp. She was waiting for me to describe the drum. “One of the big drums,” I said. Her fingers flickered on the table. “Was it dressed?” “What?” “Decorated.” “Yes.” “How?” I told her about the crosses. “Not crosses, not Christian. Those are stars. Was it painted?” “There was a bird. A little blue bird.” She closed her eyes, pressed two fingers to the space between her eyebrows. I watched her carefully, because she does this when she is trying to form a thought. Finally, she spoke. She talked a long time, and I can only sum up what she said: The drum is the universe. The people who take their place at each side represent the spirits who sit at the four directions. A painted drum, especially, is considered a living thing and must be fed as the spirits are fed—with tobacco and a glass of water set nearby, sometimes a plate of food. A drum is never to be placed on the ground, or left alone, and it is always to be covered with a blanket or quilt. Drums are known to cure and known to kill. They become one with their keeper. They are made for serious reasons by people who dream the details of their construction. No two are alike, but every drum is related to every other drum. They speak to one another and they give their songs to humans. I should be careful around the drum, she said. She was bothered by its presence in the collection. “It's more alive than a set of human bones,'' she finished. After she went to bed, I cleared off a low table in the corner of my bedroom and then I brought the drum inside and balanced it carefully on the table. I shoved two chairs up against each side. Whenever I touched the drum, even to set it down, it made a sound. A high, hollow note. Or a low, uncertain tone, like a question. A slight tap on its edge set up reverberations. It was exquisitely sensitive for so powerful an instrument, and I wondered what it sounded like when struck with force, by many and in unison. I turned off the light and got into bed. I leave my windows open just a crack at night, even in winter. The darkness seethed with spring music, and from time to time, deep in the woods, a barred owl screamed like a woman in pain. I thought I might have dreams—as pragmatic as I consider myself, it had been a long, strange day. The realization that I'd stolen the drum outright surfaced and sank in my consciousness. No matter how justified by history I felt, I promised myself that I would not evade my guilt or rationalize my conduct. Which was not the same as even considering that I might do the proper thing and return the drum to Sarah Tatro. All I have is other people's lives. What I do belongs to them and to my mother—her business, her legacy, her blood. Even the box of tears in my closet belongs to another woman, L.M.B. But now I've stolen the drum. And it seems to me, as I lie in the dark of my room, that my instinctive theft signifies something so essential that it might be called survival. I have stepped out of rules and laws and am breathing thin, new air. My theft is but the first of many I'll accomplish—though not of objects. There are other things I need and will have to have, other things I'll take. Thoughts, plans, private rages, and even joys, now secret to myself. I am usually a sound sleeper, but tonight, all night, it seems, I am listening. Thinking. So many ideas float in half-formed, and then veer off. Our old house ticks. Not regularly, like a clock, but softly all through itself as the slats in the walls change temperature or the plaster tightens or the earth shifts underneath the granite-slab foundation. From time to time, the little sounds that the house makes reverberate inside the drum. My breath does, too. I hear a rising, then a falling. In and out. A greatness, a lightness. I grow heavier, and then so inert that my body seems without life. Between breaths, I lose feeling. And then my chest fills, a resurrection. There is another thing that this house does in the deep of night. I have heard it before and now I wait for it to happen. The house releases the day's footsteps. All day we press down minutely on the wide old floorboards, moving about on regular errands, from room to room. It takes hours for the boards to readjust, to squeak back up the nails, for the old fibres of the pinewood to recover their give. As they do so, they reproduce the sound of the footsteps. In the night our maze of pathways is audibly retraced. I am used to it, as is Mother, but sometimes a wakeful guest is frightened. I can understand this. For now, as I rise and stand in half-darkness in the doorway of my bedroom, I hear the distinct creak of footsteps proceeding toward me, then past me, over to my bed. I feel the breath of my own passage, as though my dead self and my living self had briefly met in that doorway to sleep. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Temple	We were deliriously happy, delirious with the hope, infatuation, tenderness, and warmth that go with a honeymoon. Fangfang and I had planned the trip over and over, even though we had only half a month off: ten days of wedding leave, plus one week of additional work leave. Getting married is a major event in life, and for us nothing was more important, so why not ask for some extra time? That director of mine was so miserly: anyone who went to him requesting leave had to haggle; there were never automatic approvals. The two weeks I had written in my application he changed to one week, including a Sunday, and it was with reluctance that he said, “I'll expect you to be back at work by the due date.” “Of course, of course,” I said. “We wouldn't be able to afford the salary deduction if we stayed longer.” It was only then that he signed his name, thereby granting us permission to leave. I wasn't a bachelor anymore. I had a family. I would no longer be able to go off to restaurants with friends as soon as I got paid at the beginning of the month. I wouldn't be able to spend recklessly so that by the end of the month I didn't have the money to buy a pack of cigarettes and had to go through my pockets and search the drawers for coins. But I won't go into all that. I'm saying that I—we were very happy. In our short lives, there hadn't been much happiness. Both Fangfang and I had experienced years of hardship, and we had learned how it is in the world. During those catastrophic years in this country, our families suffered through many misfortunes, and we still resented, to some extent, the fate of our generation. But I won't go into that, either, for the time being. What was important was that we could now count ourselves happy. We had half a month's leave, and although it was only half a honeymoon, for us it couldn't have been sweeter. I am not going to go into how sweet it was. You all know about that and have experienced it yourselves, but this particular sweetness was ours alone. What I want to tell you about is the Temple of Perfect Benevolence: “perfect” as in “perfect union,” and “benevolence” as in “benevolent love.” But the name of the temple is not really of great importance. It was a dilapidated ruin, and certainly not a famous tourist attraction. No one knew about it, other than the locals, and I suspect that even the locals who knew what it was called were few. In any case, the temple we happened to visit wasn't one where people burned incense or prayed, and if we hadn't carefully examined the stone tablet with traces of writing in the drain of the water pump we wouldn't even have known that the temple had a name. The locals referred to it as “the big temple,” but it was nothing compared with the Retreat for the Soul Temple, in Hangzhou, or the Jade Cloud Temple, in Beijing. Situated on a hill beyond the town, it was little more than an old two-story building with flying eaves and the remnants of a stone gate in front of it. The courtyard walls had collapsed. The bricks of the outer wall had been carried off by peasants to build their houses or construct pens for their pigs, and only a circle of unfired bricks remained, overgrown with weeds. However, from a distance, from the small street of the county town, the expanse of glazed yellow tiles sparkling in the sunlight caught our eyes. We had come to this town quite by accident. Our train had stayed at the platform after the announced departure time, probably waiting for an express that was behind schedule to pass through. The chaotic scramble of passengers getting on and off had settled and, apart from the conductors chatting at the carriage doors, there was no one on the platform. Beyond the station was a valley with an expanse of gray roofs. Farther still, a chain of heavily wooded mountains gave the ancient town an exceptional air of tranquillity. Suddenly I had an idea. I said, “Should we take a look at this town?” Fangfang, who was sitting opposite and looking at me lovingly, gave a slight nod. Those eyes of hers seemed to speak, and, sensitive to each other, we communicated on the same frequency. Without a word, we took our bags from the luggage rack and rushed to the door of our carriage. As soon as we had jumped onto the platform, we both laughed. I said, “We'll leave on the next train.” “I don't mind if we don't leave at all,” Fangfang answered. After all, we were travelling, and it was our honeymoon. If we fell in love with a place we would go there, and if we went on liking the place we would stay longer. The happiness of newlyweds accompanied us all the time, wherever we went. We were the happiest people in the world. Fangfang was holding my arm, and I was holding our bags. We wanted the conductors on the platform and the countless pairs of eyes on the other side of the train windows to look at us with envy. We no longer had to drive ourselves mad trying to get transferred back to the city. Nor did we have to keep appealing to our parents for help. And we didn't have to worry about our residential status or our jobs anymore. We even had our own apartment, our own home; it wasn't very big, but it was comfortable. You belonged to me and I belonged to you and, Fangfang, I know what you want to say: This relationship is no longer immoral! And what does that mean? It means that we want everyone to share in our happiness. We've had so many problems, and we've troubled all of you with them, and you have all worried because of us. How can we repay you? With some candies and cigarettes after our wedding? No, we are repaying you with our happiness. There's nothing wrong with what I'm saying, is there? So that was how we came to this quiet old town in the valley. But, in truth, the town was nowhere near as tranquil as it had seemed when we were looking out of the train window. Below the gray roof tiles, the lanes and alleys were throbbing with activity. It was nine o'clock in the morning, and people were selling vegetables and rock melons and freshly picked apples and pears. The streets of county towns like this one aren't wide, so mule carts, horse carts, and trucks were all jammed together, the drivers cracking their whips and sounding their horns. Dust in the air, dirty water tossed out by vegetable stalls, melon skins on the ground, squawking hens flapping in the hands of their buyers: these were sights that made us feel close to the town. It all felt so different from the time when we were graduates sent to work in the countryside. Now we were just visitors passing through; we were tourists, and the complicated relationships between the people here had nothing to do with us. Inevitably, this produced in us city-dwellers a sense of superiority. Fangfang was clutching my arm tightly and I was leaning close to her, and we could sense people's eyes on us. But we didn't belong to this town; we were from another world. We walked right by them, and they didn't gossip about us; they gossiped only about the people they knew. Eventually, there were no more vegetable stalls and very few people. We had left the bustle and din of the market behind. I saw from my watch that it had taken us only half an hour to walk the length of the main road from the railway station. It was still early. It would have been an anticlimax just to return to the station and wait for the next train, and Fangfang was already thinking about spending the night here! She didn't say so, but I could see that she was somewhat disappointed. There was a man heading toward us, ostentatiously swinging his arms as he walked. He was probably a cadre. “Excuse me, could you tell me how to get to the county hostel?” I asked. He studied Fangfang and me for a moment, then enthusiastically pointed it out to us. “Go over there,” he told us, “then head left. The red brick three-story building is the county hostel.” He asked whom we were looking for, and he seemed to want to take us there himself. We explained that we were just tourists passing through and asked him if there were any sights worth seeing. He patted his head: this, it seemed, was a problem. After giving the matter some thought, he said, “There actually aren't any scenic spots in this county. But there's a big temple up on the hill to the west of town, if you want to go there. You'll have to climb the hill, though, and it's steep!” “That's O.K. We've come here so that we can go hiking,” I said. Fangfang hastened to add, “That's right. We're not afraid of climbing a hill.” At this, the man led us to the corner of the street. The hill was now directly in front of us, and on top of it, glazed tiles sparkling in the sun, was the old temple. But then the man glanced at the high-heeled shoes that Fangfang was wearing and said, “You'll have to wade across a river.” “Is the water deep?” I asked. “Above the knees.” I looked at Fangfang. “That's nothing. I'll manage.” She didn't want to disappoint me. We thanked him and began walking in the direction he had indicated. When we turned onto the dusty dirt road, I couldn't help feeling somewhat regretful as I looked at the new high-heeled shoes with thin straps that Fangfang had on. Still, she charged ahead. “You're really a crazy little thing,” I said, catching up to her. “As long as I'm with you.” Do you remember, Fangfang? You said this as you nestled against me. We walked toward the riverbank. Corn grew straight, taller than a man, on both sides, and we followed a path through the green gauze canopy, with no one in sight either ahead or behind. Taking Fangfang in my arms, I gently kissed her. What's wrong with that? She doesn't want me to talk about that. So let's go back to the Temple of Perfect Benevolence. It was on the other side of the river, at the top of the hill. We could see tufts of weeds growing between the glistening yellow tiles. The river was clear and cool. I held Fangfang's shoes and my leather sandals in one hand and Fangfang's hand in the other, while she scooped up her skirt with her free hand. Barefoot, we felt our way across. It had been a long time since I walked barefoot, so my feet were sensitive to even the smooth stones on the riverbed. “Is it hurting your feet?” I asked Fangfang. “I like it,” you replied softly. On our honeymoon, even having sore feet was a happy sensation. All the misfortunes of the world seemed to flow away with the river water, and we returned for a moment to our youth. We frolicked in the water like mischievous children. Fangfang leaped from rock to rock as I steadied her with one hand, and from time to time she hummed a song. After crossing the river, we started to run up the hill, laughing and shouting. Then Fangfang cut her foot and I was very upset, but she comforted me, saying that it was all right, it would be nothing as soon as she put on her shoes. I said that it was my fault, but she replied that she'd do anything to make me happy, even let her feet get cut. All right, all right, I won't go on about it. But because you are the friends we value most, who have shared our anxieties with us, we should also share our happiness with you. It was in this way that we finally climbed to the top of the hill and arrived at the outer gate in front of the temple. Within the collapsed courtyard wall there was a gutter with pure water from the pump running through it. In what had been the courtyard, someone had planted a patch of vegetables, and next to it was a manure pit. We recalled the years that we had spent shovelling manure with production units in the countryside. Those difficult times had trickled away like water, and there remained some grief but also sweet memories, and there was our love, too. In the glorious sunlight, no one could interfere with this secure love of ours. No one would be able to harm us again. Near the big temple there was also an iron incense burner. It was probably too heavy to move and too thick to break apart, so it continued to keep the old temple company, standing guard in front of the main door. The door was padlocked. Boards had been nailed over the rotten wooden lattice windows, but they, too, had rotted. The place was probably now being used as a storehouse for the local production team. No one else was around, and it was very peaceful. We could hear the mountain wind moaning in the ancient pines in front of the temple, and, as there was no one to disturb us, we lay down on the grass in the shade of the trees. Fangfang rested her head on my arm, and we looked up at a thread of cloud that was about to disappear into the blue sky. Ours was an indescribable happiness, a true contentment. We would have gone on lying there, intoxicated by this tranquillity, but we heard heavy footsteps on the flagstones. Fangfang sat up, and I got to my feet to have a look. A man was walking along the stone path from the gate toward the temple. He was a big fellow, with a mass of tangled hair and an untrimmed beard covering his cheeks. He was scowling. From beneath bushy eyebrows, his stern eyes surveyed us. The wind had turned cool. Probably noticing our curious looks, the man raised his head slightly in the direction of the temple. Then, squinting, he studied the weeds swaying among the shiny tiles. He stopped in front of the incense burner and, striking it with one hand, made it ring. His fingers, gnarled and rough, looked as if they, too, were made of cast iron. In his other hand he held a tattered black cotton bag. He didn't seem like a commune member who had come to tend the vegetables. He was sizing us up again, looking at Fangfang's high-heeled shoes and our travel bags in the grass. Fangfang immediately put her shoes back on. Then, unexpectedly, he addressed us. “Are you from out of town? Are you enjoying yourselves here?” I nodded. “It's good weather,” he said. He seemed to want to talk. The eyes under those thick eyebrows had become less stern, and he appeared well-meaning. He was wearing leather shoes with rubber-tire soles, and the seams had split in places. The legs of his trousers were wet, so he had clearly come across the river from town. “It's cool, and the view is quite beautiful,” I said. “Sit down. I'll be leaving shortly.” It seemed that he was offering a kind of apology. He, too, sat down on the grass beside the flagstones. He opened his bag and said, “Would you like a melon?” “No, thanks,” I said quickly. But he threw me a rock melon anyway. I caught it and was about to throw it back. “It's nothing. I've got half a bag of them here,” he said, raising the heavy bag to show me and taking out another melon as he spoke. I couldn't say no, so I took a parcel of snacks from my travel bag, opened it, and held it out to him. “Try our snacks,” I said. He took a small piece of cake and put it on top of his bag. “That's enough,” he said. “Go ahead and eat it.” He squeezed the melon in his big hands, cracking the brittle skin. “They're clean. I washed them in the river.” He tossed away the melon rind and shouted in the direction of the gate, “Take a break! Come and eat some melon!” “But there are long-horned grasshoppers here!” A boy's voice came from beyond the gate, then the boy himself appeared on the slope, holding a wire cage. “There are plenty of them. I'll catch some for you later,” the man replied. The little boy came toward us, bouncing and jumping as he ran. “Is it school vacation?” I asked and, copying the man, cracked our melon into pieces. “It's Sunday today, so I brought him out,” he replied. We were so intoxicated with our own holiday that we had forgotten what day of the week it was. Fangfang took a bite of the melon and smiled at me to indicate that he was a good man. There are, in fact, many good people in the world. “Eat it. It's from Uncle and Auntie over there,” he said to the boy, who was staring at the cream cake on top of his bag. The boy had grown up in this town and had clearly never seen such a cake. He took it and ate it right away. “Is he your son?” I asked. The man didn't reply, but said to the boy, “Take the melon and go play. I'll catch grasshoppers for you later.” “I want to catch five of them!” the boy said. “All right, we'll catch five.” The man watched him as he ran off with the wire cage in his hand. There were deep creases at the corners of his eyes. “He isn't my son,” he said, looking down and taking out a cigarette. Striking a match, he dragged hard. He perceived our surprise and added, “He's the child of my paternal cousin. I want to adopt him, but it depends on whether he's willing to come and stay with me.” Suddenly we understood that this stern man's heart was churning with emotion. “What about your wife?” Fangfang couldn't help asking. There was no reply. He puffed hard on his cigarette, got up, and left. We felt the chill of the mountain air. On the brilliant yellow tiles, the fresh grass that had sprouted in the spring was as tall as the old, withered stalks, and both swayed in the breeze. In the blue sky, a floating cloud that seemed to hang on the corner of a flying eave created the impression that the temple itself was tilting. A broken tile at the edge of the eave looked as if it were about to fall. Perhaps it had sat that way for years without falling. The man was standing on a mound that had once been a wall, and for a long time he just stared out at the mountains and valleys. In the distance were ridges that were higher and steeper than the hill we were on. There were no terraced fields on the mountain slopes and no houses to be seen. “You shouldn't have asked him,” I said. “Don't go on about it.” Fangfang looked aggrieved. “There's a grasshopper here!” The boy's voice came from the other side of the hill. It seemed far away but was very clear. The man strode off in his direction, swinging the bag of rock melons, and disappeared from sight. I put a hand on Fangfang's shoulder and pulled her toward me. “Don't.” She turned away. “There's a bit of grass in your hair,” I explained, removing a pine needle that had stuck to her hair. “That tile is about to fall,” Fangfang said. She, too, had noticed the broken tile that was hanging so precariously. “It would be good if it fell. Otherwise it might injure someone,” she mumbled. “It might be a while before it does fall,” I said. We walked to the mound where the man had been standing. In the valley there was a stretch of farmland, dense crops of luxuriant green barley and broomcorn millet, waiting for the autumn harvest. Below us, on a level part of the slope, were a few mud huts, their bottom halves newly coated in brilliant white lime. The man was holding the boy's hand as they made their way down a little winding track, past the huts and through the crops. Suddenly, like a colt that has broken free of its reins, the boy bolted off, dashing ahead then turning and running back. He seemed to be waving the cage at the man. “Do you think the man caught grasshoppers for him?” Fangfang, do you remember asking me that? “Of course,” I said. “Of course.” “He caught five of them!” you said cheekily. Well, that's the Temple of Perfect Benevolence that we visited on our honeymoon, and which I wanted to describe for all of you. ♦ (Translated, from the Chinese, by Mabel Lee.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Deep Junior Press Conference	I married an ice man. I first met him in a hotel at a ski resort, which is probably the perfect place to meet an ice man. The hotel lobby was crowded with animated young people, but the ice man was sitting by himself on a chair in the corner farthest from the fireplace, quietly reading a book. Although it was nearly noon, the clear, chilly light of an early-winter morning seemed to linger around him. “Look, that's an ice man,” my friend whispered. At the time, though, I had absolutely no idea what an ice man was. My friend didn't, either. “He must be made of ice. That's why they call him an ice man.” She said this to me with a serious expression, as if she were talking about a ghost or someone with a contagious disease. The ice man was tall, and he seemed to be young, but his stubby, wirelike hair had patches of white in it, like pockets of unmelted snow. His cheekbones stood out sharply, like frozen stone, and his fingers were rimed with a white frost that looked as if it would never melt. Otherwise, though, the ice man seemed like an ordinary man. He wasn't what you'd call handsome, but you could see that he might be very attractive, depending on how you looked at him. In any case, something about him pierced me to the heart, and I felt this, more than anywhere, in his eyes. His gaze was as silent and transparent as the splinters of light that pass through icicles on a winter morning. It was like the single glint of life in an artificial body. I stood there for a while and watched the ice man from a distance. He didn't look up. He just sat without moving, reading his book as though there were no one else around him. The next morning, the ice man was in the same place again, reading a book in exactly the same way. When I went to the dining room for lunch, and when I came back from skiing with my friends that evening, he was still there, directing the same gaze onto the pages of the same book. The same thing happened the day after that. Even when the sun sank low, and the hour grew late, he sat in his chair, as quiet as the winter scene outside the window. On the afternoon of the fourth day, I made up some excuse not to go out on the slopes. I stayed in the hotel by myself and loitered for a while in the lobby, which was as empty as a ghost town. The air there was warm and moist, and the room had a strangely dejected smell—the smell of snow that had been tracked in on the soles of people's shoes and was now melting in front of the fireplace. I looked out the windows, rustled through the pages of a newspaper or two, and then went over to the ice man, gathered my nerve, and spoke. I tend to be shy with strangers and, unless I have a very good reason, I don't usually talk to people I don't know. But I felt compelled to talk to the ice man no matter what. It was my last night at the hotel, and if I let this chance go by I feared I would never get to talk with an ice man again. “Don't you ski?” I asked him, as casually as I could. He turned his face toward me slowly, as if he'd heard a noise in the distance, and he stared at me with those eyes. Then he calmly shook his head. “I don't ski,” he said. “I just like to sit here and read and look at the snow.” His words formed white clouds above him, like comic-strip captions. I could actually see the words in the air, until he rubbed them away with a frost-rimed finger. I had no idea what to say next. I just blushed and stood there. The ice man looked into my eyes and seemed to smile slightly. “Would you like to sit down?” he asked. “You're interested in me, aren't you? You want to know what an ice man is.” Then he laughed. “Relax, there's nothing to worry about. You won't catch a cold just by talking to me.” We sat side by side on a sofa in the corner of the lobby and watched the snowflakes dance outside the window. I ordered a hot cocoa and drank it, but the ice man didn't drink anything. He didn't seem to be any better at conversation than I was. Not only that, but we didn't seem to have anything in common to talk about. At first, we talked about the weather. Then we talked about the hotel. “Are you here by yourself?” I asked the ice man. “Yes,” he answered. He asked me if I liked skiing. “Not very much,” I said. “I only came because my friends insisted. I actually rarely ski at all.” There were so many things I wanted to know. Was his body really made of ice? What did he eat? Where did he live in the summer? Did he have a family? Things like that. But the ice man didn't talk about himself, and I held back from asking personal questions. Instead, the ice man talked about me. I know it's hard to believe, but he somehow knew all about me. He knew about the members of my family; he knew my age, my likes and dislikes, the state of my health, the school I was attending, and the friends I was seeing. He even knew things that had happened to me so far in the past that I had long since forgotten them. “I don't understand,” I said, flustered. I felt as if I were naked in front of a stranger. “How do you know so much about me? Can you read people's minds?” “No, I can't read minds or anything like that. I just know,” the ice man said. “I just know. It's as if I were looking deep into ice, and, when I look at you like this, things about you become clearly visible to me.” I asked him, “Can you see my future?” “I can't see the future,” he said slowly. “I can't take any interest in the future at all. More precisely, I have no conception of a future. That's because ice has no future. All it has is the past enclosed within it. Ice is able to preserve things that way—very cleanly and distinctly and as vividly as though they were still alive. That's the essence of ice.” “That's nice,” I said and smiled. “I'm relieved to hear that. After all, I don't really want to know what my future is.” We met again a number of times once we were back in the city. Eventually, we started dating. We didn't go to movies, though, or to coffee shops. We didn't even go to restaurants. The ice man rarely ate anything to speak of. Instead, we always sat on a bench in the park and talked about things—anything except the ice man himself. “Why is that?” I asked him once. “Why don't you talk about yourself? I want to know more about you. Where were you born? What are your parents like? How did you happen to become an ice man?” The ice man looked at me for a while, and then he shook his head. “I don't know,” he said quietly and clearly, exhaling a puff of white words into the air. “I know the past of everything else. But I myself have no past. I don't know where I was born, or what my parents looked like. I don't even know if I had parents. I have no idea how old I am. I don't know if I have an age at all.” The ice man was as lonely as an iceberg in the dark night. I fell seriously in love with this ice man. The ice man loved me just as I was—in the present, without any future. In turn, I loved the ice man just as he was—in the present, without any past. We even started to talk about getting married. I had just turned twenty, and the ice man was the first person I had really loved. At the time, I couldn't begin to imagine what it meant to love an ice man. But even if I'd fallen in love with a normal man I doubt I'd have had a clearer idea of what love meant. My mother and my older sister were strongly opposed to my marrying the ice man. “You're too young to get married,” they said. “Besides, you don't know a thing about his background. You don't even know where he was born or when. How could we possibly tell our relatives that you're marrying someone like that? Plus, this is an ice man we're talking about, and what are you going to do if he suddenly melts away? You don't seem to understand that marriage requires a real commitment.” Their worries were unfounded, though. After all, an ice man isn't really made of ice. He isn't going to melt, no matter how warm it gets. He's called an ice man because his body is as cold as ice, but what he's made of is different from ice, and it's not the kind of cold that takes away other people's heat. So we got married. Nobody blessed the wedding, and no friends or relatives were happy for us. We didn't hold a ceremony, and, when it came to having my name entered in his family register, well, the ice man didn't even have one. We just decided, the two of us, that we were married. We bought a little cake and ate it together, and that was our modest wedding. We rented a tiny apartment, and the ice man made a living by working at a cold-storage meat facility. He could take any amount of cold, and he never felt tired, no matter how hard he worked. So the ice man's employer liked him very much, and paid him a better salary than the other employees. The two of us lived a happy life together, without bothering or being bothered by anyone. When the ice man made love to me, I saw in my mind a piece of ice that I was sure existed somewhere in quiet solitude. I thought that the ice man probably knew where that piece of ice was. It was frozen hard, so hard that I thought nothing could be harder. It was the biggest piece of ice in the world. It was somewhere very far away, and the ice man was passing on the memories of that ice to me and to the world. At first, I felt confused when the ice man made love to me. But, after a while, I got used to it. I even started to love having sex with the ice man. In the night, we silently shared that enormous piece of ice, in which hundreds of millions of years—all the pasts of the world—were stored. There were no problems to speak of in our married life. We loved each other deeply, and nothing came between us. We wanted to have a child, but that didn't seem to be possible. It may have been that human genes and ice-man genes didn't combine easily. In any case, it was partly because we didn't have children that I found myself with time on my hands. I would finish up all the housework in the morning, and then have nothing to do. I didn't have any friends to talk to or go out with, and I didn't have much to do with the people in our neighborhood, either. My mother and sister were still angry with me for marrying the ice man and showed no sign of ever wanting to see me again. And although, as the months passed, the people around us started talking to him from time to time, deep in their hearts they still hadn't accepted the ice man or me, who had married him. We were different from them, and no amount of time could bridge the gap between us. So, while the ice man was working, I stayed at home by myself, reading books and listening to music. I tend to prefer staying at home, anyway, and I don't especially mind being alone. But I was still young, and doing the same thing day after day eventually began to bother me. It wasn't the boredom that hurt. It was the repetition. That was why I said to my husband one day, “How would it be if the two of us went away on a trip somewhere, just for a change?” “A trip?” the ice man said. He narrowed his eyes and stared at me. “What on earth would we take a trip for? Aren't you happy being here with me?” “It's not that,” I said. “I am happy. But I'm bored. I feel like travelling somewhere far away and seeing things that I've never seen before. I want to see what it's like to breathe new air. Do you understand? Besides, we haven't even had our honeymoon yet. We have some savings, and you have plenty of vacation days coming to you. Isn't it about time that we got away somewhere and took it easy for a while?” The ice man heaved a deep frozen sigh. It crystallized in midair with a ringing sound. He laced his long fingers together on his knees. “Well, if you really want to go on a trip so badly, I don't have anything against it. I'll go anywhere if it'll make you happy. But do you know where you want to go?” “How about visiting the South Pole?” I said. I chose the South Pole because I was sure that the ice man would be interested in going somewhere cold. And, to be honest, I had always wanted to travel there. I wanted to wear a fur coat with a hood, and I wanted to see the aurora australis and a flock of penguins. When I said this, my husband looked straight into my eyes, without blinking, and I felt as if a pointed icicle were piercing all the way through to the back of my head. He was silent for a while, and finally he said, in a glinting voice, “All right, if that's what you want, then let's go to the South Pole. You're really sure that this is what you want?” I wasn't able to answer right away. The ice man's stare had been on me so long that the inside of my head felt numb. Then I nodded. As time passed, though, I came to regret ever having brought up the idea of going to the South Pole. I don't know why, but it seemed that as soon as I spoke the words “South Pole” to my husband something changed inside him. His eyes became sharper, his breath came out whiter, and his fingers were frostier. He hardly talked to me anymore, and he stopped eating entirely. All of this made me feel very insecure. Five days before we were supposed to leave, I got up my nerve and said, “Let's forget about going to the South Pole. When I think about it now, I realize that it's going to be terribly cold there, and it might not be good for our health. I'm starting to think that it might be better for us to go someplace more ordinary. How about Europe? Let's go have a real vacation in Spain. We can drink wine, eat paella, and see a bullfight or something.” But my husband paid no attention to what I was saying. He stared off into space for a few minutes. Then he declared, “No, I don't particularly want to go to Spain. Spain is too hot for me. It's too dusty, and the food is too spicy. Besides, I've already bought tickets for the South Pole. And we've got a fur coat and fur-lined boots for you. We can't let all that go to waste. Now that we've come this far, we can't not go.” The truth is that I was scared. I had a premonition that if we went to the South Pole something would happen to us that we might not be able to undo. I was having this bad dream over and over again. It was always the same. I'd be out taking a walk and I'd fall into a deep crevasse that had opened up in the ground. Nobody would find me, and I'd freeze down there. Shut up inside the ice, I'd stare up at the sky. I'd be conscious, but I wouldn't be able to move, not even a finger. I'd realize that moment by moment I was becoming the past. As people looked at me, at what I'd become, they were looking at the past. I was a scene moving backward, away from them. Then I'd wake up and find the ice man sleeping beside me. He always slept without breathing, like a dead man. But I loved the ice man. I cried, and my tears dripped onto his cheek and he woke up and held me in his arms. “I had a bad dream,” I told him. “It was only a dream,” he said. “Dreams come from the past, not the future. You aren't bound by them. The dreams are bound by you. Do you understand that?” “Yes,” I said, though I wasn't convinced. I couldn't find a good reason to cancel the trip, so in the end my husband and I boarded a plane for the South Pole. The stewardesses were all taciturn. I wanted to look at the view out the window, but the clouds were so thick that I couldn't see anything. After a while, the window was covered with a layer of ice. My husband sat silently reading a book. I felt none of the excitement of heading off on a vacation. I was just going through the motions and doing things that had already been decided on. When we went down the stairs and stepped off onto the ground of the South Pole, I felt my husband's body lurch. It lasted less than a blink of an eye, just half a second, and his expression didn't change at all, but I saw it happen. Something inside the ice man had been secretly, violently shaken. He stopped and looked at the sky, then at his hands. He heaved a huge breath. Then he looked at me and grinned. He said, “Is this the place you wanted to visit?” “Yes,” I said. “It is.” The South Pole was lonely beyond anything I had expected. Almost no one lived there. There was just one small, featureless town, and in that town there was one hotel, which was, of course, also small and featureless. The South Pole was not a tourist destination. There wasn't a single penguin. And you couldn't see the aurora australis. There were no trees, flowers, rivers, or ponds. Everywhere I went, there was only ice. Everywhere, as far as I could see, the wasteland of ice stretched on and on. My husband, though, walked enthusiastically from place to place as if he couldn't get enough of it. He learned the local language quickly, and spoke with the townspeople in a voice that had the hard rumble of an avalanche. He conversed with them for hours with a serious expression on his face, but I had no way of knowing what they were talking about. I felt as though my husband had betrayed me and left me to care for myself. There, in that wordless world surrounded by thick ice, I eventually lost all my strength. Bit by bit, bit by bit. In the end, I didn't even have the energy to feel irritated anymore. It was as though I had lost the compass of my emotions somewhere. I had lost track of where I was heading, I had lost track of time, and I had lost all sense of my own self. I don't know when this started or when it ended, but when I regained consciousness I was in a world of ice, an eternal winter drained of all color, closed in alone. Even after most of my sensation had gone, I still knew this much. My husband at the South Pole was not the same man as before. He looked out for me just as he had always done, and he spoke to me kindly. I could tell that he truly meant the things he said to me. But I also knew that he was no longer the ice man I had met in the hotel at the ski resort. There was no way I could bring this to anybody's attention, though. Everyone at the South Pole liked him, and, anyway, they couldn't understand a word I said. Puffing out their white breath, they would tell jokes and argue and sing songs in their own language while I sat by myself in our room, looking out at a gray sky that was unlikely to clear for months to come. The airplane that had brought us there had long since gone, and after a while the runway was covered with a hard layer of ice, just like my heart. “Winter has come,” my husband said. “It's going to be a very long winter, and there will be no more planes, or ships, either. Everything has frozen over. It looks as though we'll have to stay here until next spring.” About three months after we arrived at the South Pole, I realized that I was pregnant. The child that I gave birth to would be a little ice man—I knew this. My womb had frozen over, and my amniotic fluid was slush. I could feel its chill inside me. My child would be just like his father, with eyes like icicles and frost-rimed fingers. And our new family would never again set foot outside the South Pole. The eternal past, heavy beyond all comprehension, had us in its grasp. We would never shake it off. Now there's almost no heart left in me. My warmth has gone very far away. Sometimes I forget that warmth ever existed. In this place, I am lonelier than anyone else in the world. When I cry, the ice man kisses my cheek, and my tears turn to ice. He takes those frozen teardrops in his hand and puts them on his tongue. “See how I love you,” he says. He is telling the truth. But a wind sweeping in from nowhere blows his white words back and back into the past. ♦ (Translated, from the Japanese, by Richard L. Peterson.) Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Ice Man	Ice Man The New Yorker, February 10, 2003 P. 80 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a woman who marries an ice man... I married an ice man. I first met him in a hotel at a ski resort. "Look, that's an ice man," my friend whispered. The iceman was tall, and he seemed to be young, but his fingers were rimed with a white frost that looked as if it would never melt. Something about him pierced me to the heart. I made up some excuse not to go out, and stayed in the hotel. I felt compelled to talk to the ice man no matter what. "I don't ski," he said. "I just like to sit here and read and look at the snow. You're interested in me, aren't you? You want to know what an ice man is." I held back from asking personal questions. Instead, the iceman talked about me. Somehow, he knew all about me. "How do you know so much about me?" "I can't read minds or anything. I just know." Eventually we started dating. We always sat on a bench in the park and talked." "Why don't you talk about yourself? How did you come to be an ice man?" "I don't know. I don't even know if I had parents." I fell seriously in love with this ice man. The ice man loved me just as I wasóin the present. My mother and my older sister were strongly opposed to my marrying the ice man. "You don't know a thing about his background." So we got married. Nobody blessed the wedding, and no friends or relatives were happy for us. We rented a tiny apartment, and the ice man made a living by working at a cold-storage meat facility The two of us lived a happy life together, without bothering or being bothered by anyone. I even started to love having sex with the ice man. We wanted to have a child but that didn't seem to be possible. It may have been that human genes and ice-man genes didn't combine easily. I found myself with time on my hands. I would finish up all the housework, and then having nothing to do. I was still young, and doing the same thing day after day. "How would it be if the two of us went away on a trip somewhere, just for a change?" "Well, if you really want to go on a trip so badly, I don't have anything against it." "How about visiting the South Pole?" It seemed as soon as I spoke the words "South Pole," something changed inside him. I had a premonition that if we went to the South Pole something would happen to us, but I couldn't find a good reason to cancel the trip. When we stepped off onto the ground of the South Pole I felt my husbands body lurch. something inside the ice man had been secretly violently shaken. He walked enthusiastically from place to place as if he couldn't get enough of it. He learned the local language quickly. I felt as though my husband had betrayed me and left me to care for myself. I eventually lost my strength. The airplane that had brought us there wad long since gone, and the runway was covered with ice. "Winter has come It looks as though we'll have to stay here until next spring." About three months after we arrived, I realized I was pregnant. The child would be a little ice man. I could feel its chill inside me, Our new family would never again set foot outside the South Pole. I am lonelier than anyone else in the world. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The High Divide	At the Home I'd get up early, when the Sisters were still asleep, and head to the ancient Chinese man's store. The ancient Chinese man was a brown, knotted, shrivelled man who looked like a chunk of gingerroot and ran one of those tiny stores that sell grapefruits, wine, and toilet paper, and no one can ever figure out how they survive. But he survived, he figured it out. His ancient Chinese wife was a little twig of a woman who sat in a chair and never said a word. He spoke only enough English to conduct business, to say hello and goodbye, to make change, although every morning, when I came for my grapefruit, I tried to teach him some useful vocabulary. I came out of the gray drizzle through the glass door with the old Fishback Appliance Repair sign still stencilled on it, a copper cowbell clanging above me, and the store was cold, the lights weren't even on. I went to the bin and picked through the grapefruits and found one that wasn't bad, a yellow ball, soft and square from sitting too long in the box, and then I went to the counter. The Chinese man wasn't there. His tiny branchlike wife was sitting in her chair, all bent up. I searched my pockets for show, knowing all along that I'd be a little short. I came up with twenty-seven cents, half a paper clip, a pen cap, and a ball of blue lint. I put the money in her hand and she stared at it. By the lonesome sound my nickels and pennies made when she sorted them into their slots I also knew that the till was empty. I looked behind her through the beaded curtain to the small apartment behind the shop. Next to the kitchen sink was an apple with a bite out of it, the bite turned brown like an old laugh. I held my grapefruit, tossed it up in the air, caught it. Where is he? I asked. She was chewing on a slice of ginger and offered me a piece, which I accepted. In the morning, they chewed ginger instead of drinking coffee. Husband? I said. She blinked and spat on the floor. Meiyou xiwang, she said. Meiyou xiwang. She folded her hands, tangling the tiny brown roots together. Meiyou xiwang, she said, touching her heart, and sending her hands flying apart. Her singsong voice beat an echo against the bare walls. Her hands flapped like a bat. I shook my head. Meiyou xiwang, she insisted. Huh? I said, but I knew we could go on forever not making any sense. She hugged herself, like she was cold. I didn't know what to say. She'd travelled all this way, she'd left China and crossed the ocean and come to Bremerton and opened a little store and put grapefruit in the bins and Mogen David on the shelves, but she'd gone too far, because now she couldn't tell anybody what was happening to her anymore. I had two projects at the Home. I was reading the encyclopedia, working through the whole circle of learning available to man, as the introduction said. I'd started with Ignatius Loyola, because I'm named after him, and the Inquisition, and this led me right into the topic of torture. My other project involved learning Latin so I could be an altar boy. I got the idea one morning at Sacred Heart while I was staring at the cold altar and the Cross and winking at the nailed-up Christ to see if he'd wink back. Our priest said that he didn't go for the vernacular because it was vulgar. If you were God Eternal, he said, would you want to listen to such yowling? He said that everything in the Church was a sign for something else, and a priest was a man who knew all the signs, but an altar boy knew a few of them, too. I looked around the sanctuary. With the snowy marble slab of altar, the gilt dome of the tabernacle and its tiny doors, the chalices and cruets, the fresh-cut flowers, the sparkling candlelight, the sanctuary was like a foreign country, and if I knew the language I could go there. Several times I read the Missal as far as the Minor Elevation, the part of the Mass just after you pray for the dead. Per omnia saecula saeculorum. Amen. World without end. Amen. But I was trying to learn Latin with phonetics—the Missal was Latin on one side, English on the other—and, needless to say, my comprehension was zero, and I was always finding myself back at the beginning, starting over. Per omnia saecula saeculorum, amen! Most of our schoolwork focussed on how to get into Heaven. Sister Eulalia, the catechism nun, taught us about sin and the opportunities for salvation. She was a short, wide old woman with thick glasses and blue eyes that drifted behind them like tropical fish. She kept calling Jesus the Holy Victim and the Word Made Flesh and the Unspotted Sacrifice. She said that sacrifice didn't mean to kill but to make holy. We are made in the image of God's great mystery but through our ignorance and despair our vision is clouded. Salvation, she told us, is our presence in a bright light where we at last become the perfect image and reflection of our Creator. We saw a slide show on the scapular. A boy was riding by a gas station on his bicycle. A man was pumping gas and a family was waiting in a car. Then the gas station was blowing up and the boy was flying through the air. Everybody died but the boy, who was wearing his scapular. Sister Eulalia passed around blank order forms and said to fill them out and bring $2.50 if you thought it was prudent to have a scapular for yourself. I'd spent all my money on grapefruits, though. At night, in bed, I practiced my prayers. We had to memorize so many at the Home: Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory Be, Act of Faith, of Hope, of Love, of Contrition. Praying either put me to sleep or made me think of girls. Once, I passed a girl a note during class and Sister Josephine, the discipline nun, intercepted it and said someone my age doesn't know the least thing about love and shouldn't use that word the way I did. That kind of love is special, she said. It's a rare gift from God, it's the consummation of a union, and it's certainly nothing for children. Sister Josephine called it The Marriage Act. It's embarrassing for me to admit, but she made me cry, she was yelling so much. I never sent another note. Still, I attached a vague feeling of hope to different girls, a feeling of, I don't know, of whatever, that came out, some nights, when I said prayers. We had to learn the prayers because we prayed for everything: we prayed for food, we prayed for sleep, we prayed for new basketballs. Three times a day, Sister Catherine, the food nun, took us to the church cafeteria for our meals. Volunteer ladies served us—they were all old and kind and had science-fiction hair, clouds of blue gas, burning white-hot rocket fuel, explosions of atomic frizz. I loved the endless stacks of white bread and the cold slabs of butter. When the nuns said I was underfoot, I went downstairs and studied the encyclopedias or read Latin or went outside and shot buses with my pump gun. Buses passed the Home every twenty-six minutes. I built up my arm pitching rocks at a tree until a circle of pulpy white wood was exposed in the bark. One afternoon I planted a sunflower in a milk carton. I longed to go somewhere but there wasn't anywhere good that I knew of. Then one day I found the public-school yard. What're you doing here, you stupid shit? asked one kid, a pudgy boy with skin like a baby. He and some other boys pushed around me in a circle. The pudge said, Who are you? When I didn't answer, he said, You're one of those orphan bastards, right? The boys crowded in closer and I was afraid to speak. People could tell you were from the Home by your haircut. We were all shaved up like the Dalai Lama. Finally, I smiled and mumbled, If you say so. What? the pudge said. I didn't hear you. The circle of boys cinched like a knot. Their looming heads were way up in the sky. Yeah, I said. After that I sat below the monkey bars and chewed a butter sandwich and watched pudge-boy and his gang over by the water fountain with some girls and I knew I was going to have to kick his ass sooner or later. Everything else was new and strange but this seemed predictable and something I could rely on. That spring the pudge had the nerve to try out for baseball. He wore brand-new cleats and threw like a fem and his mitt, also brand-new, very orange and stiff, wouldn't close. He might as well have been standing in right field with a piece of toast. He dropped everything. The second day of practice, we had an intrasquad game and I nailed him three times. I just chose places on his fat body and threw the ball at them. Eventually, pudge-boy was afraid to stand in the batter's box. The coach thought I had a control problem but I didn't. My control was perfect. I whiffed nine guys and made the team and the pudge was cut. He walked away, crying. I ran down the hill and jumped on his back. I hit him in the face and the neck and beat on his ear over and over. You hear that? I shouted. You hear that, you fat fucker? Now that I had him alone I was insane. The pudge rolled away on the grass, holding his ear. Blood was coming out. He was bawling, and I hawked a gob of spit right into his black, wailing mouth and said, You bastard. That night, I was asleep with the encyclopedia pitched like a tent over my nose when Sister Celestine, the head nun, came in. Why weren't you at dinner? I could hear the polished rocks of Sister Celestine's rosary rattling as she worried them between her fingers. She pulled the encyclopedia off my head. Won't you talk? Sister said. She tucked a dry, stray shaft of hair back beneath her habit. Maybe you'd feel more comfortable making a confession? I picked at the fuzzballs on my blanket. I just got off the phone with that boy's mother, she said. She touched a cut on my lip and took a deep breath. She said you called him a name. Do you know what that name means? I shook my head. She took off her scapular and put it around my neck. Two small pieces of brown wool hung on a cord, one in back, the other in front. I rubbed the wool between my finger and thumb. It's not magic, she said. No? More like a sign, she said, that helps guide people—she paused—like us. When you pray to it you never say Amen, because the prayer is continuous. It doesn't have an end. Before I received my calling, she said, I used to be a lot like you. I felt trapped. It was like I lived in a dark little corner of my own mind. She sighed. Ignatius, do you know what the opposite of love is? Hate, I said. Despair, Sister said. Despair is the opposite of love. When the pudge came to the yard, he was obviously beat up and everybody wanted to know what happened. Before I could say anything, he came charging across the lot and said, Truce, truce. We shook hands and sat under the monkey bars, which had become my private territory. I thought Catholics were pansies, he said. Ignatius Loyola was a warrior, I said. That's a weird name, the pudge said. My name's Donny. Ignatius, I told him. I'm sorry I called you a bastard, Donny said. He peeled a strip of red rubber off his tennis shoe and stretched and snapped it in the air. Then he put it in his mouth and chewed on it. You should meet my dad, he said. My dad used to race pigeons, I said. He had about a hundred of them. Donny looked impressed. How do you race pigeons? he asked. You just drive out to the country and let them go—they always find their way back to the coop. You can use pigeons to send messages. My dad ate a pigeon once, Donny said. In France. Donny told me about the Eurekan Territory, which was something he'd made up on summer vacation. The Eurekan Territory came from Eureka, California, where he had relatives he didn't like. All they did was drink greyhounds, he said, and talk about people you didn't know. They were always slapping their knees and saying Gosh, isn't that funny? when nothing was funny. Donny wasn't a Catholic but I let him wear my scapular, which he kept on calling a spatula. You should come over to our house, Donny said. It's big. My dad rakes it in. I said, You want to go see my dad? Donny looked at me. Where? he said. What do you mean, where? Isn't he dead? Follow me, I said. St. Jude's Hospital was a huge old brick building. A hurricane fence caged in a patio that was scattered with benches and garbage cans. We walked around the fence, plucking the cold wires with our fingers. My dad was sitting on a bench with a loaf of bread and an orange. He wore a paper nightgown with snaps in the back. His eyes were like blown fuses, and dry white yuck made a crust around his mouth. Wind ruffled his hair. It was too cold to be outside in a paper outfit. Don't you want a sweater? I said. I climbed up the chain-link fence. This is my friend Donny, I said. Donny, this is my dad, Tony Banner. Dad was barefoot on one foot and wore a foam-rubber slipper on the other. He grabbed the fence and the links shivered. He looked out west, toward the Olympic Mountains, and we looked, too. It was getting dark. Hey, Dad? What? He dropped a piece of bread through the fence, and a couple of cooing pigeons bobbed along the gutter and fought each other for it. They were ugly pigeons, dirty like a sidewalk. They were right under me and Donny's feet. I kicked one in the head. It fell over, and beat the dirt with its wings. I'm learning quite a lot of prayers at school, I said. That got him to laugh. The cuts on his hands were healing. That last week at our house he emptied all the soup cans in the garage and kept the rusty nails in his pockets. One morning for breakfast he served me a bowl of nails with milk and then squeezed a fistful of them in his hand until blood came out. He kept saying with his voice very loud and fast, I got the nails, I got the nails right here, boy—where's my cross, eh? Now he was gentle. He pushed bread through the fence until the loaf was gone and the pigeons flew away, except the one I'd kicked. I gotta go home and eat, Donny said to me. Donny's gotta go home and eat, I told my dad, translating for him. I've got to go eat, too. I turned around once, real quick, and he was gripping the fence, looking off nowhere, then Donny and I crawled through a hole in the hedge. Donny's dad asked us, Who wants to get the hell out of here? Who wants to go hiking in the Olympics? I'd spent most of my summer at Donny's house, so I knew his parents. Mrs. Cheetam was a beautiful woman with silver-and-gold hair. Mr. Cheetam was a travelling salesman and wasn't home much but it was true, he raked it in. They bought Donny everything. Donny told me he had a sister who died of leukemia. He played me a cassette of her last farewell. Near the end of the tape she said, Donny? I love you, remember that. I want you to know that wherever I am, and wherever you are, I'll be watching. I'll be with you always. I love you. Do you hear me? Donny? When she said that—I love you. Do you hear me? Donny?—I got a lonely sort of chill. We're now leaving the Eurekan Territory! Donny said as we drove away, and I said, That's right. Goodbye, Eurekan Territory! Mr. Cheetam listened to different tapes from a big collection he kept in a suitcase. They were old radio shows, and one I liked was called “The Shadow”: Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? Mr. Cheetam and Donny knew all the words and talked right along with the tapes. The Shadow knows, they said, ha ha ha! Later Donny woke up and asked, Where are we? Mr. Cheetam said, You see that river there, Donny? That's the Quinault River, and we're going to hike up along what's called the High Divide, and when we get to the top we'll be at the source of that river. You'll be able to skip right over it, he said, so remember how big it is now. Donny asked, What if we see the Sasquatch? I said we'd be famous, if we captured it. Or took a picture, Donny said. But I don't want to see it, he added. We parked at the ranger station and signed in. It was silent and we could hear our feet crunching the gravel. We cinched up our pack straps and looked at each other. This is it, Mr. Cheetam said. He looked up the trail. This is where we separate the men from the boys. After about an hour, we cut off the main path and headed toward the river. This is where I buried my dad, Mr. Cheetam explained. I always visit once a year. Right beside the river was a tree, hanging over the water and shadowing everything. Initials were carved in the tree on the side facing the river. B.C. is Billy Cheetam, Donny said. That's my grandpa. Is he under the tree? I asked. No, no, Mr. Cheetam laughed. He was cremated and I scattered his ashes in the river. But this is the spot, he said. The river was deep and wide at that point. Mr. Cheetam asked if he and Donny could be alone to think and remember and I hiked back out to the main trail. I sat against a fallen log until Donny came back. He talks to him, Donny said. What's he say? I asked, but Donny didn't know. Our first camp was disappointing because we could hear Boy Scouts hooting and farting around, a troop of about sixty in green uniforms with red or yellow hankies around their necks. It was like the Army, with pup tents everywhere. Mr. Cheetam said not to worry, higher up there won't be any Scouts. We found wood and lit a campfire and made dinner—beef Stroganoff—and I sopped up all the gravy with my fingers. We washed the pots and pans with pebbles and sand in the river. Mr. Cheetam drank whiskey from a silver flask, wiping his lips and saying, Aaahhh, this is living! The Boy Scouts sounded off with taps. Donny and I shared a smokewood stogie—a kind of gray stick you could smoke—and when it was quiet Mr. Cheetam cupped his hands around his mouth and moaned, Who stole my Golden Arm? Whooooo stoooole myyyy Goool-den Aaaarm? You could hear his voice echoing in the forest. Whoo stooole my Gooolden Aaarm? You did! Mr. Cheetam shouted, grabbing Donny. We crawled into our tents and I started laughing and Donny got hysterical, too. Mr. Cheetam had a different tent and told us to shut up. Donny whispered how he hated the Japs and never wanted to be captured by them—they knew how to make you talk. I told him about the Inquisition and all the tortures they'd invented for getting confessions. They had this one thing called the press, I said. If you were accused of a crime and didn't make a plea, the King ordered you to lie down. Then he piled rocks on you until you confessed the truth or got crushed. How big were the rocks? Donny asked. I don't know. What if you had thirty—what if you had a hundred—no, wait, what if you had a thousand rocks on you and then you decided to tell the truth? You could, I said. But if you said you didn't do anything, the King didn't want to hear that, and he'd just go ahead with another rock, until you admitted you did do it. Donny hesitated, and I thought I understood. I know, I said. I know. At the next camp, only two people were around, a man and a woman, who were sitting naked on a rock in the river when we first arrived, but kept to themselves afterward. Donny and Mr. Cheetam fished for a while but quit after Donny's hook got caught in the trees too many times. Mr. Cheetam said, Don't worry about it, Donny. It's no good down here. Higher up the water's colder and we'll catch tons of rainbows, maybe some Dolly Varden. We ate a great meal of dehydrated chicken tetrazzini and pilot biscuits and chocolate for dessert. Donny and I shared more smokewood. Now and then we added sticks to the fire and the light breathed out and made a circle around us. I love getting away from it all, Mr. Cheetam said. He tipped back his flask and in the bright curved silver I could see the fire flaming up. Once upon a time, Mr. Cheetam said, there was a boy and girl who were very much in love. Where was this? Donny asked. Oh, Mr. Cheetam said, it doesn't matter, does it? Love's the same everywhere you go, so let's just make up a place. How about the Eurekan Territory? I said. O.K., Mr. Cheetam said. The Eurekan Territory, that's where they were in love. It was a small place, and everybody knew everybody else, so eventually people figured out this boy and girl had a thing going. You know what a thing is, right? Donny said he did. Good for you, Mr. Cheetam said. Well, this thing was frowned on by everyone. People took different sides, against the boy, or against the girl, everybody blaming everybody else. But the boy and girl were madly in love and you can't stop love, not when it's the real thing. He went to his pack and pulled out a big bottle and refilled his flask. When he came back he said, You know what that's like, to have a real thing? Donny said, Yeah, I know. I mean really real, Mr. Cheetam said. How real? I said. Mr. Cheetam ignored me. To hell with what anybody thinks, these kids, these lovers, said. So one night the boy meets the girl on the edge of town and they drive up a dark winding road to a lover's leap. They can see everything from up there, but they're not looking. No siree, Bob. The boy and the girl sit in the car, spooning, as we used to call it back in the day—making out, and listening to love songs on the radio, until one of the songs is interrupted by a special bulletin. A prisoner has escaped! Does the prisoner have hooks instead of hands? I asked. Yeah, Mr. Cheetam said, that's the guy. How'd you know? Donny asked. I knew because the story wasn't true. The girl hears something outside, and the boy says, Oh, baby baby, don't worry, we're way up here above everything, we're safe. The boy tries to get at the girl, and the girl keeps hearing something outside. Eventually it's no fun, and they go home. When the boy opens the door for the girl to drop her out he finds a hook clawing and banging at the door handle, just clinging there, ripped right off the prisoner's arm. Mr. Cheetam didn't scare me, but Donny was scared. We were quiet for a minute, and then I told them about when my dad was driving in his car. The other car came out of nowhere, I said. And my dad was hanging half out the door. His foot was stuck under the clutch and his head was banging on the road. He was dragged about two hundred feet. He was in the hospital for a month. My mom died. No one said anything, so I added, That's a true life story. You don't think mine was? Mr. Cheetam asked. He looked at me strangely and winked. Well, I said, yeah, I do. I know it is. I heard about those lovers before. Mr. Cheetam stood up, stretched, and fell down. Donny and I looked at each other, then we got in our sleeping bags. Your dad sure enjoys whiskey, I said. In the middle of the night, Donny said, Hey, you hear that? Come off it, I said. I swear I heard something. There's nothing out there, I said, but Donny went over to sleep in his dad's tent anyway. We reached a sign that pointed different ways: the High Divide and the Low Divide. We took the high, up and up. There were fewer trees, and we climbed on loose rock called scree, and the air was thinner. Donny had an ugly blister on his heel and complained, and Mr. Cheetam got impatient with him. Just pull yourself up and get going, he said. Don't fall behind. Finally we crossed a field full of pink and yellow wildflowers, and at the far end, where the path ended, was a lake. The surface was perfectly clear and placid and we could see ourselves. Here we are, Mr. Cheetam said. Skinny-dipping, Donny said. First things first, girls, Mr. Cheetam said, so we hopped to, setting up camp and scrounging enough wood for the night. Donny and I stripped naked and jumped off the cliffs. No one else was around but when we swam and shouted and splashed our voices bounced back and forth off the rocks. Ricochet, we yelled. We dove and dove. Then we lay on a hot flat rock. I noticed that Donny had hair on his balls and he probably noticed so did I. You want to smoke a stogerooni? Donny asked. Nah, later, I said. We were stretched out and quiet: blue sky, yellow sun, white mountain—everything was perfect but Donny got antsy doing nothing for so long and took another dip. He came up fast and said, A fish! I saw a fish! And he got his fishing pole and caught a rainbow, like pulling a prayer from the water. Good work, Donny, Mr. Cheetam said. The fish wasn't all the way dead yet and Mr. Cheetam had to slap its head against a rock. Blood came out the eyes. The knife blade sank into the skin with a ripping sound. What do we do with the guts? I asked. Toss 'em in the lake, Mr. Cheetam said. We don't want any animals coming into camp. Bears? Donny said. It's not impossible, Mr. Cheetam said, but not likely, either. Maybe the Sasquatch, Donny said. Mr. Cheetam said to shut up about that damned Sasquatch. It's time you grow up, he said, shaking Donny's arm. Jesus, Donny said, rubbing himself. Mr. Cheetam wrapped the fillets in foil and set them on the fire. It was soft out now, not dark but not light, either. Our shadows were weak around the fire, and Mt. Olympus was tinged pink and purple, and the wind died down. Hey, I said, what about the Quinault? Yeah, the Quinault! Donny said. You said I'd get to walk across it. Oh crap, what was I thinking? Mr. Cheetam asked himself. You already did and I forgot, God damn it! We ran back through the darkening wildflowers. We found a little stream about a foot wide and three inches deep that you would never think was a river but it was. There's your mighty Quinault, Donny, Mr. Cheetam said. Donny asked if we built a dam would the river dry up below and Mr. Cheetam laughed, saying, No, I'm afraid it doesn't work that way. We bent down and drank and splashed our faces in the water. We listened to the little river, trickling in a whisper. It was almost like nothing. The fish was all burned to hell when we got back to camp. Donny was upset and kept whining. I'm sorry, Mr. Cheetam said, but things happen. What can I say? Then he offered, Tomorrow? You want to stay another day? Donny looked at me, then said, Stay! Stay! O.K., Mr. Cheetam said, I think we've got everything we need—plenty of provisions—and we'll catch some more fish. After dinner, Mr. Cheetam drew out his flask again. His face was like my dad's had been in the last days, rough and black. One night toward the end I'd found him, my dad, in our broom closet. He had all his Bob Dylan records out and was writing new lyrics on them with a nail. Other things happened that I prefer to keep to myself. All week his loud voice was like the echo of thoughts he'd had a long time ago. Then one morning at the very end I heard him calling me in the rain. He was on top of our house in boxer shorts, yelling. Our neighbor tried to drive him off the roof by throwing a pot of geraniums at him. My dad started ripping apart the chimney and pitching bricks down on me and everybody else on the front lawn. We had to call the authorities. For a while he thought he was Jesus in a hospital called St. Judas, but it was really St. Jude's and my dad, of course, wasn't Jesus. The same people who took him to the hospital brought me to the Home. I hadn't eaten in three days. Nearby we saw field mice hopping around, and Mr. Cheetam said that we'd better keep our packs inside the tents tonight. He hooked his arm around Donny's neck and said, How'd you like to go to California? Not Eureka, Donny said. No, Mr. Cheetam said, L.A. Donny said he didn't know anything about L.A. Mr. Cheetam fussed with the fire, arranging the coals. When that goes out that's it until morning, he said. He tipped back the flask. Then he capped it and said, That's it for that, too. He stretched and groaned and walked out where the firelight failed. I heard him whistling in the dark. Son? Mr. Cheetam said. What? Donny asked. Come on over here a minute, Mr. Cheetam said. They were in the shadows. I heard Donny say, What does Mom think? That's the thing, Mr. Cheetam said. Your mother would stay. I don't know, Donny said. How long would we be gone? Donald, Mr. Cheetam said, don't be stupid. We're divorcing, your mom and I. You see, we won't come back—we'll live in a brand-new house there. Donny begged, But why? Donald, come on. You see how things are. The two of them were quiet and staring ahead, like their next thoughts might fall out of the sky. What can I say? Mr. Cheetam said. Nothing, Donny said. I love you, Donald. You know that. I crawled inside our tent. A little while later, Donny got in his bag, buried down inside. He was crying and choking. I whispered, Donny, hey, hey Donny? Donny? I think I hear something out there. Do you hear it? Let's go look! I hugged my arm around him and he started jerking in his bag and sat up and cried to me, Here's your stupid spatula! Then he crossed over into Mr. Cheetam's tent but kept crying and begging even louder for no divorce. Look, I heard Mr. Cheetam say, after your sister died— His voice fell apart. That's too easy, he said. I've met someone else. He was quiet a minute. That's the truth. I thought the crying would go on forever, but eventually Donny must have fallen asleep. I turned over and over in my sleeping bag, and then I put on Sister Celestine's scapular and grabbed the flashlight and crawled out of the tent. The fire made a hiss and I kicked the last few embers around in the bed of ash. Mr. Cheetam snorted in his sleep and I heard Donny say, Dad? and Mr. Cheetam say, What? but there was nothing after that, even though I stood outside their tent a long time, listening. I aimed my flashlight ahead to the flat rock rim of the lake and followed the narrow beam up there. I sat, dangling my feet, and snapped off the light. I think I was feeling sorry for myself. Suddenly it felt like we'd been gone for ages. Was it Sunday? I gathered up ten rocks for a rosary, to count my prayers. I rattled them in my hands and started the Our Father but my voice was weird. I shook the rocks in my fist like dice. I threw one in the lake, and a little while later I heard the splash. Circles opened out where the stone had vanished. I thought of saying something in Latin but couldn't recall a single word, except amen. I yelled out, A-men! and heard back, Hey-men, hey-men, hey-men, smaller and smaller. I stretched out on the rock. Sister Celestine's scapular was old, the wool worn soft from handling. Once, at the Home, I had climbed the stairs, six flights up from my room in the basement, to see where she lived. We weren't supposed to go up there. I saw why. Hosiery hung from the water pipes. Candy wrappers were crumpled on the floor. A black habit lay like an empty sack beside the bed. The bed was unmade, and I could see the hollow where Sister Celestine slept. A pale-green blanket and a thin yellow top sheet had been twisted into a tight braid and kicked off the end of the mattress. The only decoration was a black wooden crucifix, nailed on the wall above the bed like a permanent shadow. I was still lying there when Donny and Mr. Cheetam came running up the rock in their undies. Hey, what's going on? they asked. They said they'd heard me shouting and were afraid I'd got lost or seen something. Maybe the Sasquatch, Donny said. God damn it, Donald, there is no such thing, Mr. Cheetam said. That's just a myth. Oh yeah, Donny said. How do you know? Don't worry, I said. It was nothing. You sure? Donny said. It was nothing, I said. I'm sure. A wind was blowing and it was a little cold on that rock. Nobody knew what to say. See out there? Above Mt. Olympus? That green star? Mr. Cheetam said, pointing. We all looked—a vague white shadow, a green light. It's not really a star. That's a planet—that's Venus, Mr. Cheetam said. The goddess of love. That's just a myth, Donny said, looking at his father. Bastard. I didn't hear you, Mr. Cheetam said. What did you say? Nothing, Donny said. Nothing? It didn't sound like nothing to me. I pitched another rock in the lake, way out there, as far as possible. We all listened. Across the water a circle spread out, wider and wider. Then, shaking with cold, Donny folded his arms around himself and yelled out, Hey, and we heard back, Hey, hey, hey, and then I yelled out, Hey, and even Mr. Cheetam joined in, and we kept hearing back, Hey, hey, hey, like there were millions of us everywhere. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Jon	Credit “Hii” (detail) Michael Bevilacqua/Deitch Projects Back in the time of which I am speaking, due to our Coördinators had mandated us, we had all seen that educational video of “It’s Yours to Do With What You Like!” in which teens like ourselfs speak on the healthy benefits of getting off by oneself and doing what one feels like in terms of self-touching, which what we learned from that video was, there is nothing wrong with self-touching, because love is a mystery but the mechanics of love need not be, so go off alone, see what is up, with you and your relation to your own gonads, and the main thing is, just have fun, feeling no shame! And then nightfall would fall and our facility would fill with the sounds of quiet fast breathing from inside our Privacy Tarps as we all experimented per the techniques taught us in “It’s Yours to Do With What You Like!” and what do you suspect, you had better make sure that that little gap between the main wall and the sliding wall that slides out to make your Gender Areas is like really really small. Which guess what, it wasn’t. That is all what I am saying. Also all what I am saying is, who could blame Josh for noting that gap and squeezing through it snakelike in just his Old Navy boxers that Old Navy gave us to wear for gratis, plus who could blame Ruthie for leaving her Velcro knowingly un-Velcroed? Which soon all the rest of us heard them doing what the rest of us so badly wanted to be doing, only we, being more mindful of the rules than them, just laid there doing the self-stuff from the video, listening to Ruth and Josh really doing it for real, which believe me, even that was pretty fun. And when Josh came back next morning so happy he was crying, that was a further blow to our morality, because why did our Coördinators not catch him on their supposedly nighttime monitors? In all of our hearts was the thought of, O.K., we thought you said no boy-and-girl stuff, and yet here is Josh, with his Old Navy boxers and a hickey on his waist, and none of you guys is even saying boo? Because I for one wanted to do right, I did not want to sneak through that gap, I wanted to wed someone when old enough (I will soon tell who) and relocate to the appropriate facility in terms of demographics, namely Young Marrieds, such as Scranton, PA, or Mobile, AL, and then along comes Josh doing Ruthie with imperity, and no one is punished, and soon the miracle of birth results and all our Coördinators, even Mr. Delacourt, are bringing Baby Amber stuffed animals? At which point every cell or chromosome or whatever it was in my gonads that had been holding their breaths was suddenly like, Dude, slide through that gap no matter how bad it hurts, squat outside Carolyn’s Privacy Tarp whispering, Carolyn, it’s me, please un-Velcro your Privacy opening! Then came the final straw that broke the back of my saying no to my gonads, which was I dreamed I was that black dude on MTV’s “Hot and Spicy Christmas” (around like Location Indicator 34412, if you want to check it out) and Carolyn was the oiled-up white chick, and we were trying to earn the Island Vacation by miming through the ten Hot ‘n’ Nasty Positions before the end of “We Three Kings,” only then, sadly, during Her on Top, Thumb in Mouth, her Elf Cap fell off, and as the Loser Buzzer sounded she bent low to me, saying, Oh, Jon, I wish we did not have to do this for fake in front of hundreds of kids on Spring Break doing the wave but instead could do it for real with just each other in private. And then she kissed me with a kiss I can only describe as melting. So imagine that is you, you are a healthy young dude who has been self-practicing all those months, and you wake from that dream of a hot chick giving you a melting kiss, and that same hot chick is laying or lying just on the other side of the sliding wall, and meanwhile in the very next Privacy Tarp is that sleeping dude Josh, who a few weeks before a baby was born to the girl he had recently did it with, and nothing bad happened to them, except now Mr. Slippen sometimes let them sleep in. What would you do? Well, you would do what I did, you would slip through, and when Carolyn un-Velcroed that Velcro wearing her blue Guess kimono, whispering, Oh my God, I thought you’d never ask, that would be the most romantic thing you had ever underwent. And though I had many times seen LI 34321 for Honey Grahams, where the stream of milk and the stream of honey enjoin to make that river of sweet-tasting goodness, I did not know that, upon making love, one person may become like the milk and the other like the honey, and soon they cannot even remember who started out the milk and who the honey, they just become one fluid, this like honey/milk combo. Well, that is what happened to us. Which is why soon I had to go to Mr. Slippen hat in hand and say, Sir, Baby Amber will be having a little playmate if that is O.K. with you, to which he just rolled his eyes and crushed the plastic cup in his hand and threw it at my chest, saying, What are we running in here, Randy, a freaking play school? Then he said, Well, Christ, what am I supposed to do, lose two valuable team members because of this silliness? All right all right, how soon will Baby Amber be out of that crib or do I have to order your kid a whole new one? Which I was so happy, because soon I would be a father and would not even lose my job. A few days later, like how it was with Ruthie and Josh, Mr. Delacourt’s brother the minister came in and married us, and afterward barbecue beef was catered, and we danced at our window while outside pink and purple balloons were released, and all the other kids were like, Rock on, you guys, have a nice baby and all! It was the best day of our lifes thus far for sure. But I guess it is true what they say at LI 11006 about life throwing us not only curves and sliders but sometimes even worse, as Dodger pitcher Hector Jones throws from behind his back a grand piano for Allstate, because soon here came that incident with Baby Amber, which made everybody just loony. Which that incident was, Baby Amber died. Sometimes it was just nice and gave one a fresh springtime feeling to sit in the much coveted window seat, finalizing one’s Summary while gazing out at our foliage strip, which sometimes slinking through it would be a cat from Rustic Village Apartments, looking so cute that one wished to pet or even smell it, with wishful petting being the feeling I was undergoing on the sad day of which I am telling, such as even giving the cat a tuna chunk and a sip of my Diet Coke! If cats even like soda. That I do not know. And then Baby Amber toddled by, making this funny noise in her throat of not being very happy, and upon reaching the Snack Cart she like seized up and tumped over, giving off this sort of shriek. At first we all just looked at her, like going, Baby Amber, if that is some sort of new game, we do not exactly get it, plus come on, we have a lot of Assessments to get through this morning, such as a First-Taste Session for Diet GingerCoke, plus a very critical First View of Dean Witter’s Preliminary Clip Reel for their campaign of “Whose Ass Are You Kicking Today?” But then she did not get up. We dropped our Summaries and raced to the Observation Window and began pounding, due to we loved her so much, her being the first baby we had ever witnessed living day after day, and soon the paramedics came and took her away, with one of them saying, Jesus, how stupid are you kids, anyway, this baby is burning up, she is like 107 with meningitis. So next morning there was Carolyn all freaked out with her little baby belly, watching Amber’s crib being dismantled by Physical Plant, who wiped all facility surfaces with Handi Wipes in case the meningitis was viral, and there was the rest of us, just like thrashing around the place kicking things down, going like, This sucks, this is totally fucked up! Looking back, I commend Mr. Slippen for what he did next, which was he said, Christ, folks, all our hearts are broken, it is not just yours, do you or do you not think I have Observed this baby from the time she was born, do you or do you not think that I, too, feel like kicking things down while shouting, This sucks, this is totally fucked up? Only what would that accomplish, would that bring Baby Amber back? I am at a loss, in terms of how can we best support Ruth and Josh in this sad tragic time, is it via feeling blue and cranky, or via feeling refreshed and hopeful and thus better able to respond to their needs? So that was a non-brainer, and we all voted to accept Mr. Slippen’s Facility Morale Initiative, and soon were getting our Aurabon® twice a day instead of once, plus it seemed like better stuff, and I for one had never felt so glad or stress-free, and my Assessments became very nuanced, and I spent many hours doing and enjoying them and then redoing and reënjoying them, and it was during this period that we won the McDorland Prize for Excellence in Assessing in the Midwest Region in our demographic category of White Teens. The only one who failed to become gladder was Carolyn, who due to her condition of pregnant could not join us at the place in the wall where we hooked in for our Aurabon®. And now whenever the rest of us hooked in she would come over and say such negative things as, Wake up and smell the coffee, you feel bad because a baby died, how about honoring that by continuing to feel bad, which is only natural, because a goddam baby died, you guys? At night in our shared double Privacy Tarp in Conference Room 11, which our Coördinators had gave us so we would feel more married, I would be like, Honey, look, your attitude only sucks because you can’t hook in, once baby comes all will be fine, due to you’ll be able to hook in again, right? But she always blew me off, like she would say she was thinking of never hooking in again and why was I always pushing her to hook in and she just didn’t know who to trust anymore, and one night when the baby kicked she said to her abdomen, Don’t worry, angel, Mommy is going to get you Out. Which my feeling was: Out? Hello? My feeling was: Hold on, I like what I have achieved, and when I thought of descending Out to somewhere with no hope of meeting luminaries such as actress Lily Farrell-Garesh or Mark Belay, chairperson of Thatscool.com, descending Out to, say, some lumberyard like at LI 77656 for Midol, merely piling lumber as cars rushed past, cars with no luminaries inside, only plain regular people who did not know me from Adam, who, upon seeing me, saw just some mere guy stacking lumber having such humdrum thoughts as thinking, Hey, I wonder what’s for lunch, duh—I got a cold flat feeling in my gut, because I did not want to undergo it. Plus furthermore (and I said this to Carolyn) what will it be like for us when all has been taken from us? Of what will we speak of? I do not want to only speak of my love in grunts! If I wish to compare my love to a love I have previous knowledge of, I do not want to stand there in the wind casting about for my metaphor! If I want to say like, Carolyn, remember that RE/MAX one where as the redhead kid falls asleep holding that Teddy bear rescued from the trash, the bear comes alive and winks, and the announcer goes, Home is the place where you find yourself suddenly no longer longing for home (LI 34451)—if I want to say to Carolyn, Carolyn, LI 34451, check it out, that is how I feel about you—well, then, I want to say it! I want to possess all the articulate I can, because otherwise there we will be, in non-designer clothes, no longer even on TrendSetters & TasteMakers gum cards with our photos on them, and I will turn to her and say, Honey, uh, honey, there is a certain feeling but I cannot name it and cannot cite a precedent-type feeling, but trust me, dearest, wow, do I ever feel it for you, right now. And what will that be like, that stupid standing there, just a man and a woman and the wind, and nobody knowing what nobody is meaning? Just then the baby kicked my hand, which at that time was on Carolyn’s stomach. And Carolyn was like, You are either with me or agin me. Which was so funny, because she was proving my point! Because you are either with me or agin me is what the Lysol bottle at LI 12009 says to the scrubbing sponge as they approach the grease stain together, which is making at them a threatening fist while wearing a sort of Mexican bandolera! When I pointed this out, she removed my hand from her belly. I love you, I said. Prove it, she said. So next day Carolyn and I came up to Mr. Slippen and said, Please, Mr. Slippen, we hereby Request that you supply us with the appropriate Exit Paperwork. To which Mr. Slippen said, Guys, folks, tell me this is a joke by you on me. And Carolyn said softly, because she had always liked Mr. Slippen, who had taught her to ride a bike when small in the Fitness Area, It’s no joke. And Slippen said, Holy smokes, you guys are possessed of the fruits of the labors of hundreds of thousands of talented passionate men and women, some of whom are now gone from us, they poured forth these visions in the prime of their lives, reacting spontaneously to the beauty and energy of the world around them, which is why these stories and images are such an unforgettable testimony to who we are as a nation! And you have it all within you! I can only imagine how thrilling that must be. And now, to give it all up? For what? Carolyn, for what? And Carolyn said, Mr. Slippen, I did not see you raising your babies in such a confined environment. And Slippen said, Carolyn, that is so, but also please note that neither I nor my kids have ever been on TrendSetters & TasteMakers gum cards and believe me, I have heard a few earfuls vis-à-vis that, as in: Dad, you could’ve got us In but no, and now, Dad, I am merely another ophthalmologist among millions of ophthalmologists. And please do not think that is not something that a father sometimes struggles with. In terms of coulda shoulda woulda. And Carolyn said, Jon, you know what, he is not even really listening to us. And Slippen said, Randy, since when is your name Jon? Because by the way my name is really Jon. Randy is just what my mother put on the form the day I was Accepted, although tell the truth I do not know why. It is one thing to see all this stuff in your head, Carolyn said. But altogether different to be out in it, I would expect. And I could see that she was softening into a like daughter role, as if wanting him to tell her what to do, and up came LI 27493 (Prudential Life), where, with Dad enstroked in the hospital bed, Daughter asks should she marry the guy who though poor has a good heart, and we see the guy working with inner-city kids via spray-painting a swing set, and Dad says, Sweetie, the heart must lead you. And then later here is Dad all better in a tux, and Daughter hugging the poor but good dude while sneaking a wink at Dad, who raises his glass and points at the groom’s shoe, where there is this little smudge of swing-set paint. I cannot comment as to that, Slippen said. Everyone is different. Nobody can know someone else’s experiences. Larry, no offense but you are talking shit, Carolyn said. We deserve better than that from you. And Slippen looked to be softening, and I remembered when he would sneak all of us kids in doughnuts, doughnuts we did not even need to Assess but could simply eat with joy with jelly on our face before returning to our Focussed Purposeful Play with toys we would Assess by coloring in on a sheet of paper either a smiling duck if the toy was fun or a scowling duck if the toy bit. And Slippen said, Look, Carolyn, you are two very fortunate people, even chosen people. A huge investment was made in you, which I would argue you have a certain responsibility to repay, not to mention, with a baby on the way, there is the question of security, security for your future that I— Uncle, please, Carolyn said, which was her trumpet cart, because when she was small he had let her call him that and now she sometimes still did when the moment was right, such as at Christmas Eve when all of our feelings was high. Jesus, Slippen said. Look, you two can do what you want, clearly. I cannot stop you kids, but, golly, I wish I could. All that is required is the required pre-Exit visit to the Lerner Center, which as you know you must take before I can give you the necessary Exit Paperwork. When would you like to take or make that visit? Now, Carolyn said. Gosh, Carolyn, when did you become such a pistol? Mr. Slippen said, and called for the minivan. The Lerner Center, even when reached via a blackened-window minivan, is a trip that will really blow one’s mind, due to all the new sights and sounds one experiences, such as carpet on floor is different from carpet on facility floor, such as smoke smell from the minivan ashtrays, whereas we are a No Smoking facility, not to mention, wow, when we were led in blindfolded for our own protection, so many new smells shot forth from these like sidewalkside blooms or whatever that Carolyn and I were literally bumping into each other like swooning. Inside they took our blindfolds off, and, yes, it looked and smelled exactly like our facility, and like every facility across the land, via the PervaScent® system, except in other facilities across the land a lady in blue scrubs does not come up to you with crossed eyes, sloshing around a cup of lemonade, saying in this drunk voice like, A barn is more than a barn it is a memory of a time when you were cared for by a national chain of caregivers who bring you the best of life with a selfless evening in Monterey when the stars are low you can be thankful to your Amorino Co broker! And then she burst into tears and held her lemonade so crooked it was like spilling on the Foosball table. I had no idea what Location Indicator or Indicators she was even at, and when I asked, she didn’t seem to even know what I meant by Location Indicator, and was like, Oh, I just don’t know anymore what is going on with me or why I would expose that tenderest part of my baby to the roughest part of the forest where the going gets rough, which is not the accomplishment of any one man but an entire team of dreamers who dream the same dreams you dream in the best interests of that most important system of all, your family! Then this Lerner Center dude came over and led her away, and she slammed her hand down so hard on the Foosball table that the little goalie cracked and his head flew over by us, and someone said, Good one, Doreen. Now there’s no Foosball. At which time luckily it was time for our Individual Consultation. Who we got was this Mid-Ager from Akron, OH, who, when I asked my first question off of my Question Card they gave us, which was, What is it like in terms of pain, he said, There is no pain except once I poked myself in my hole with a coffee stirrer and, Jesus, that smarted, but otherwise you can’t really even feel it. So I was glad to hear it, although not so glad when he showed us where he had poked his hole with the stirrer, because I am famous as a wimp among my peers in terms of gore, and he had opted not to use any DermaFill®, and you could see right in. And, wow, there is something about observing up close a raw bloody hole at the base of somebody’s hair that really gets one thinking. And though he said, in Question No. 2, that his hole did not present him any special challenges in terms of daily maintenance, looking into that hole, I was like, Dude, how does that give you no challenges, it is like somebody blew off a firecracker inside your freaking neck! And when Carolyn said Question No. 3, which was, How do you now find your thought processes, his brow darkened and he said, Well, to be frank, though quite advanced, having been here three years, there are, if you will, places where things used to be when I went looking for them, brainwise, but now, when I go there, nothing is there, it is like I have the shelving but not the cans of corn, if you get my drift. For example, looking at you, young lady, I know enough to say you are pretty, but when I direct my brain to a certain place, to find there a more vivid way of saying you are pretty, watch this, some words will come out, which I, please excuse me, oh dammit— Then his voice changed to this announcer voice and he was like, These women know that for many generations entrenched deep in this ancient forest is a secret known by coffeegrowers since the dawn of time man has wanted one thing which is to watch golf in peace will surely follow once knowledge is dispersed and the World Book is a super bridge across the many miles the phone card can close the gap! And his eyes were crossing and he was sputtering, which would have been funny if we did not know that soon our eyes would be the crossing eyes and out of our mouths would the sputter be flying. Then he got up and fled from the room, hitting himself hard in the face. And I said to Carolyn, Well, that about does it for me. And I waited for her to say that about did it for her, but she only sat there looking conflicted with her hand on her belly. Out in the Common Room, I took her in my arms and said, Honey, I do not really think we have it all that bad, why not just go home and love each other and our baby when he or she comes, and make the best of all the blessings what we have been given? And her head was tilted down in this way that seemed to be saying, Yes, sweetie, my God, you were right all along. But then a bad decisive thing happened, which was this old lady came hobbling over and said, Dear, you must wait until Year Two to truly know, some do not thrive but others do, I am Year Two, and do you know what? When I see a bug now, I truly see a bug, when I see a paint chip I am truly seeing that paint chip, there is no distraction and it is so sweet, nothing in one’s field of vision but what one opts to put there via moving one’s eyes, and also do you hear how well I am speaking? Out in the minivan I said, Well I am decided, and Carolyn said, Well I am too. And then there was this long dead silence, because I knew and she knew that what we had both decided was not the same decision, not at all, that old crony had somehow rung her bell! And I said, How do you know what she said is even true? And she said, I just know. That night in our double Privacy Tarp, Carolyn nudged me awake and said, Jon, doesn’t it make sense to make our mistakes in the direction of giving our kid the best possible chance at a beautiful life? And I was like, Chick, please take a look in the Fridge, where there is every type of food that must be kept cold, take a look on top of the Fridge, where there is every type of snack, take a look in our Group Closet, which is packed with gratis designerwear such as Baby Gap and even Baby Ann Taylor, whereas what kind of beautiful life are you proposing with a Fridge that is empty both inside and on top, and the three of us going around all sloppenly, because I don’t know about you but my skill set is pretty limited in terms of what do I know how to do, and if you go into the Fashion Module for Baby Ann Taylor and click with your blinking eyes on Pricing Info you will find that they are not just giving that shit away. And she said, Oh, Jon, you break my heart, that night when you came to my Tarp you were like a lion taking what he wanted but now you are like some bunny wiffling his nose in fright. Well, that wasn’t nice, and I told her that wasn’t nice, and she said, Jesus, don’t whine, you are whining like a bunny, and I said I would rather be a bunny than a rag, and she said maybe I better go sleep somewhere else. So I went out to Boys and slept on the floor, it being too late to check out a Privacy Tarp. And I was pissed and sad, because no dude likes to think of himself as a rabbit, because once your girl thinks of you as a rabbit, how will she ever again think of you as a lion? And all of the sudden I felt very much like starting over with someone who would always think of me as a lion and never as a rabbit, and who really got it about how lucky we were. Laying there in Boys, I did what I always did when confused, which was call up my Memory Loop of my mom, where she is baking a pie with her red hair up in a bun, and as always she paused in her rolling and said, Oh, my little man, I love you so much, which is why I did the most difficult thing of all, which was part with you, my darling, so that you could use your exceptional intelligence to do that most holy of things, help other people. Stay where you are, do not get distracted, have a content and productive life, and I will be happy too. Blinking on End, I was like, Thanks, Mom, you have always been there for me, I really wish I could have met you in person before you died. In the morning Slippen woke me by giving me the light shock on the foot bottom which was sometimes useful to help us arise if we had to arise early and were in need of assistance, and said to please accompany him, as we had a bit of a sticky wicket in our purview. Waiting in Conference Room 6 were Mr. Dove and Mr. Andrews and Mr. Delacourt himself, and at the end of the table Carolyn, looking small, with both hands on her pile of Exit Paperwork and her hair in braids, which I had always found cute, her being like that milkmaid for Swiss Rain Chocolate (LI 10003), who suddenly throws away her pail and grows sexy via taking out her braids, and as some fat farm ladies line up by a silo and also take out their braids to look sexy, their thin husbands look dubious and run for the forest. Randy, Mr. Dove said, Carolyn here has evinced a desire to Exit. What we would like to know is, being married, do you have that same desire? And I looked at Carolyn like, You are jumping to some conclusion because of one little fight, when it was you who called me the rabbit first, which is the only reason I called you rag? It’s not because of last night, Jon, Carolyn said. Randy, I sense some doubt? Mr. Dove said. And I had to admit that some doubt was being felt by me, because it seemed more than ever like she was some sort of malcontentish girl who would never be happy, no matter how good things were. Maybe you kids would like some additional time, Mr. Andrews said. Some time to talk it over and be really sure. I don’t need any additional time, Carolyn said. And I said, You’re going no matter what? No matter what I do? And she said, Jon, I want you to come with me so bad, but, yes, I’m going. And Mr. Dove said, Wait a minute, who is Jon? And Mr. Andrews said, Randy is Jon, it is apparently some sort of pet name between them. And Slippen said to us, Look, guys, I have been married for nearly thirty years and it has been my experience that, when in doubt, take a breath. Err on the side of being together. Maybe, Carolyn, the thing to do is, I mean, your Paperwork is complete, we will hold on to it, and maybe Randy, as a concession to Carolyn, you could complete your Paperwork, and we’ll hold on to it for you, and when you both decide the time is right, all you have to do is say the word and we will— I’m going today, Carolyn said. As soon as possible. And Mr. Dove looked at me and said, Jon, Randy, whoever, are you prepared to go today? And I said no. Because what is her rush, I was feeling, why is she looking so frantic with furrowed anxious brow like that Claymation chicken at LI 98473, who says the sky is falling the sky is falling and turns out it is only a Dodge Ramcharger, which crushes her from on high and one arm of hers or wing sticks out with a sign that says March Madness Daze? And Slippen said, Guys, guys, I find this a great pity. You are terrific together. A real love match. Carolyn was crying now and said, I am so sorry, but if I wait I might change my mind, which I know in my heart would be wrong. And she thrust her Exit Paperwork across at Mr. Slippen. Then Dove and Andrews and Delacourt began moving with great speed, as if working directly from some sort of corporate manual, which actually they were, Mr. Dove had some photocopied sheets, and, reading from the sheets, he asked was there anyone with whom she wished to have a fond last private conversation, and she said, Well, duh, and we were both left briefly alone. She took a deep breath while looking at me all tender and said, Oh Gadzooks. Which that broke my heart, Gadzooks being what we sometimes said at nice privacy moments in our Privacy Tarp when overwhelmed by our good luck in terms of our respective bodies looking so hot and appropriate, Gadzooks being from LI 38492 for Zookers Gum, where the guy blows a bubble so Zookified that it ingests a whole city and the city goes floating up to Mars. At this point her tears were streaming down and mine also, because up until then I thought we had been so happy. Jon, please, she said. I just can’t, I said. And that was true. So we sat there quiet with her hands against my hands like Colonel Sanders and wife at LI 87345, where he is in jail for refusing to give up the recipe for KFC Haitian MiniBreasts, and then Carolyn said, I didn’t mean that thing about the rabbit, and I scrinkled up my nose rabbitlike to make her laugh. But apparently in the corporate manual there is a time limit on fond last private conversations, because in came Kyle and Blake from Security, and Carolyn kissed me hard, like trying to memorize my mouth, and whispered, Someday come find us. Then they took her away, or she took them away rather, because she was so far in front they had to like run to keep up as she clomped loudly away in her Kenneth Cole boots, which by the way they did not let her keep those, because that night, selecting my pajamas, I found them back in the Group Closet. Night after night after that I would lay or lie alone in our Privacy Tarp, which now held only her nail clippers and her former stuffed dog Lefty, and during the days Slippen let me spend many unbillable hours in the much coveted window seat, just scanning some images or multiscanning some images, and around me would be the other facility Boys and Girls, all Assessing, all smiling, because we were still on the twice-a-day Aurabon®, and thinking of Carolyn in those blue scrubs, alone in the Lerner Center, I would apply for some additional Aurabon® via filling out a Work-Affecting Mood-Problem Notification, which Slippen would always approve, because he felt so bad for me. And the Aurabon® would make things better, as Aurabon® always makes things better, although soon what I found was, when you are hooking in like eight or nine times a day, you are always so happy, and yet it is a kind of happy like chewing on tinfoil, and once you are living for that sort of happy, you soon cannot be happy enough, even when you are very very happy and are even near tears due to the beauty of the round metal hooks used to hang your facility curtains, you feel this intense wish to be even happier, so you tear yourself away from the beautiful curtain hooks, and with shaking happy hands fill out another Work-Affecting Mood-Problem Notification, and then, because nothing in your facility is beautiful enough to look at with your new level of happiness, you sit in the much coveted window seat and start lendelling in this crazy uncontrolled way, calling up, say, the Nike one with the Hanging Gardens of Babylon (LI 89736), and though it is beautiful, it is not beautiful enough, so you scatter around some Delicate Secrets lingerie models from LI 22314, and hang fat Dole oranges and bananas in the trees (LI 76765), and add like a sky full of bright stars from LI 74638 for Crest, and from the Smell Palate supplied by the anti-allergen Capaviv® you fill the air with jasmine and myrrh, but still that is not beautiful enough, so you blink on End and fill out another Work-Affecting Mood-Problem Notification, until finally one day Mr. Dove comes over and says, Randy, Jon, whatever you are calling yourself these days—a couple of items. First, it seems to us that you are in some private space not helpful to you, and so we are cutting back your Aurabon® to twice a day like the other folks, and please do not sit in that window seat anymore, it is hereby forbidden to you, and plus we are going to put you on some additional Project Teams, since it is our view that idle hands are the devil’s work area. Also, since you are only one person, it is not fair, we feel, for you to have a whole double Privacy Tarp to yourself, you must, it seems to us, rejoin your fellow Boys in Boys. So that night I went back with Rudy and Lance and Jason and the others, and they were nice, as they are always nice, and via No. 10 cable Jason shared with me some Still Photos from last year’s Christmas party, of Carolyn hugging me from behind with her cute face appearing beneath my armpit, which made me remember how after the party in our Privacy Tarp we played a certain game, which it is none of your beeswax who I was in that game and who she was, only, believe me, that was a memorable night, with us watching the snow fall from the much coveted window seat, in which we sat snuggling around midnight, when we had left our Tarp to take a break for air, and also we were both sort of sore. Which made it all that much more messed up and sad to be sleeping once again alone in Boys. When the sliding wall came out to make our Gender Areas, I noticed that they had fixed it so nobody could slide through anymore, via five metal rods. All we could do was, by putting our mouths to the former gap, say good night to the Girls, who all said good night back from their respective Privacy Tarps in this sort of muffled way. But I did not do that, as I had nobody over there I wished to say good night to, they all being like merely sisters to me, and that was all. So that was the saddest time of my life thus far for sure. Then one day we were all laying or lying on our stomachs playing Hungarian Headchopper for GameBoy, a new proposed one where you are this dude with a scythe in your mother’s garden, only what your mother grows is heads, when suddenly a shadow was cast over my game by Mr. Slippen, which freaked up my display, and I harvested three unripe heads, but the reason Mr. Slippen was casting his shadow was, he had got a letter for me from Carolyn! And I was so nervous opening it, and even more nervous after opening it, because inside were these weird like marks I could not read, like someone had hooked a pen to the back leg of a bird and said, Run, little bird, run around this page and I will mail it for you. And the parts I could read were bumming me out even worse, such as she had wrote all sloppenly, Jon a abbot is a cove, a glen, it is something with prayerful guys all the livelong day in silence as they move around they are sure of one thing which is the long-term stability of a product we not only stand behind we run behind since what is wrong with taking a chance even if that chance has horns and hoofs and it is just you and your worst fear in front of ten thousand screaming supporters of your last chance to be the very best you can be? And then thank God it started again looking like the pen on the foot of the running bird. I thought of how hot and smart she had looked when doing a crossword with sunglasses on her head in Hilfiger cutoffs, I thought of her that first night in her Privacy Tarp, naked except for her La Perla panties in the light that came from the Exit sign through the thin blue Privacy Tarp, so her flat tummy and not-flat breasts and flirty smile were all blue, and then all of the sudden I felt like the biggest jerk in the world, because why had I let her go? It was like I was all of the sudden waking up! She was mine and I was hers, she was so thin and cute, and now she was at the Lerner Center all alone? Shaking and scared with a bloody hole in her neck and our baby in her belly, hanging out with all those other scared shaking people with bloody holes in their necks, only none of them knew her and loved her like I did? I had done such a dumb-shit thing to her, all the time thinking it was sound reasoning, because isn’t that how it is with our heads, when we are in them it always makes sense, but then later, when you look back, we sometimes are like, I am acting like a total dumb-ass! Then Brad came up and was like, Dude, time to hook in. And I was like, Please, Brad, do not bother me with that shit at this time. And I went to get Slippen, only he was at lunch, so I went to get Dove and said, Sir, I hereby Request my appropriate Exit Paperwork. And he said, Randy, please, you’re scaring me, don’t act rash, have a look out the window. I had a look, and tell the truth it did not look that good, such as the Rustic Village Apartments, out of which every morning these bummed-out-looking guys in the plainest non-designer clothes ever would trudge out and get in their junky cars. And was someone joyfully kissing them goodbye, like saying when you come home tonight you will get a big treat, which is me? No, the person who should have been kissing them with joy was yelling, or smoking, or yelling while smoking, and when the dudes came home they would sit on their stoops with heads in hand, as if all day long at work someone had been pounding them with clubs on their heads, saying they were jerks. Then Dove said, Randy, Randy, why would a talented young person like yourself wish to surrender his influence in the world and become just another lowing cattle in the crowd, don’t you know how much people out there look up to you and depend on you? And that was true. Because sometimes kids from Rustic Village would come over and stand in our lava rocks with our Tastemakers & Trendsetters gum cards upheld, pressing them to our window, and when we would wave to them or strike the pose we were posing on our gum cards, they would race back all happy to their crappy apartments, probably to tell their moms that they had seen the real actual us, which was probably like the high point of their weeks. But still, when I thought of those birdlike markings of Carolyn’s letter, I don’t know, something just popped, I felt I was at a distinct tilt, and I blurted out, No, no, just please bring me the freaking Paperwork, I am Requesting, and I thought when I Requested you had to do it! And Dove said sadly, We do, Randy, when you Request, we have to do it. Dove called the other Coördinators over and said, Larry, your little pal has just Requested his Paperwork. And Slippen said, I’ll be damned. What a waste, Delacourt said. This is one super kid. One of our best, Andrews said. Which was true, with me five times winning the Coöperative Spirit Award and once even the Denny O’Malley Prize, Denny O’Malley being this Assessor in Chicago, IL, struck down at age ten, who died with a smile on his face of leukemia. Say what you will, it takes courage, Slippen said. Going after one’s wife and all. Yes and no, Delacourt said. If you, Larry, fall off a roof, does it help me to go tumbling after you? But I am not your wife, Slippen said. Your pregnant wife. Wife or no, pregnant or no, Delacourt said. What we then have are two folks not feeling so good in terms of that pavement rushing up. No one is helped. Two are crushed. In effect three are crushed. Baby makes three, Andrews said. Although anything is possible, Slippen said. You know, the two of them together, the three of them, maybe they could make a go of it— Larry, whose side are you on? Dove said. I am on all sides, Slippen said. You see this thing from various perspectives, Andrews said. Anyway, this is academic, Delacourt said. He has Requested his Paperwork and we must provide it. His poor mother, Dove said. The sacrifices she made, and now this. Oh, please, Slippen said. His mother. Larry, sorry, did you say something? Dove said. Which mother did he get? Slippen said. Larry, please go to that Taste-and-Rate in Conference Room 6, Delacourt said. See how they are doing with those CheezWands. Which mother did we give him? Slippen said. The redhead baking the pie? The blonde in the garden? Larry, honestly, Dove said. Are you freaking out? The brunette at prayer? Slippen said. Who, putting down her prayer book, says, Stay where you are, do not get distracted, have a content and productive life, and I will be happy too? Larry has been working too hard, Andrews said. Plus taking prescription pills not prescribed to him, Delacourt said. I have just had it with all of this, Slippen said, and stomped off to the Observation Room. Ha ha, that Larry! Dove said. He did not even know your mom, Randy. Only we did, Andrews said. Very nice lady, Delacourt said. Made terrific pies, Dove said. And I was like, Do you guys think I am that stupid, I know something is up, because how did Slippen know my mom was a redhead making a pie and how did he know her exact words she said to me on my private Memory Loop? Then there was this long silence. And Delacourt said, Randy, when you were a child, you thought as a child. Do you know that one? And I did know that one, it being LI 88643 for Trojan Ribbed. Well, you are not a child anymore, he said. You are a man. A man in the middle of making a huge mistake. We had hoped it would not come to this, Dove said. Please accompany us to the Facility Cinema, Delacourt said. So I accompanied them to the Facility Cinema, which was a room off of Dining, with big-screen plasma TV and Pottery Barn leather couch and de-luxe Orville Redenbacher Corn Magician. Up on the big-screen came this old-fashioned-looking film of a plain young girl with stringy hair, smoking a cigarette in a house that looked pretty bad. And this guy unseen on the video said, O.K., tell us precisely why, in your own words. And the girl said, Oh, I dunno, due to my relation with the dad, I got less than great baby interest? O.K., the unseen voice said. And the money is not part? Well, sure, yeah, I can always use money, she said. But it is not the prime reason? the voice said. It being required that it not be the prime reason, but rather the prime reason might be, for example, your desire for a better life for your child? O.K., she said. Then they pulled back and you could see bashed-out windows with cardboard in them and the counters covered with dirty dishes and in the yard a car up on blocks. And you have no objections to the terms and conditions? the voice said. Which you have read in their entirety? It’s all fine, the girl said. Have you read it? the voice said. I read in it, she said. O.K., O.K., I read it cover to freaking cover. And the name change you have no objection to? the voice said. O.K., she said. Although why Randy? And the No-Visit Clause you also have no objection to? the voice said. Fine, she said, and took a big drag. Then Dove tapped on the wall twice and the movie Paused. Do you know who that lady is, Randy? he said. No, I said. Do you know that lady is your mom? he said. No, I said. Well, that lady is your mom, Randy, he said. We are sorry you had to learn it in this manner. And I was like, Very funny, that is not my mom, my mom is pretty, with red hair in a bun. Randy, we admit it, Delacourt said. We gave some of you stylized mothers, in your Memory Loops, for your own good, not wanting you to feel bad about who your real mothers were. But in this time of crisis we must give you the straight skinny. That is your real mother, Randy, that is your real former house, that is where you would have been raised had your mother not answered our ad all those years ago, that is who you are. So much in us is hardwired! You cannot fight fate without some significant help from an intervening entity, such as us, such as our resources, which we have poured into you in good faith all these years. You are a prince, we have made you a prince. Please do not descend back into the mud. Reconsider, Randy, Dove said. Sleep on it. Will you? Delacourt said. Will you at least sleep on it? And I said I would. Because tell the truth that thing with my mom had freaked me out, it was like my foundation had fallen away, like at LI 83743 for Advil, where the guy’s foundation of his house falls away and he thunks his head on the floor of Hell and thus needs a Advil, which the Devil has some but won’t give him any. As he left, Dove unhit Pause, and I had time to note many things on that video, such as that lady’s teeth were not good, such as my chin and hers were similar, such as she referred to our dog as Shit Machine, which what kind of name was that for a dog, such as at one point they zoomed in on this little baby sitting on the floor in just a diaper, all dirty and looking sort of dumb, and I could see very plain it was me. Just before Dinner, Dove came back in. Randy, your Paperwork, per your Request, he said. Do you still want it? I don’t know, I said. I’m not sure. You are making me very happy, Dove said. And he sent in Tony from Catering with this intense Dinner of steak au poivre and our usual cheese tray with Alsatian olives, and a milkshake in my monogrammed cup, and while I watched “Sunset Terror Home” on the big-screen, always a favorite, Bedtime passed and nobody came and got me, them letting me stay up as late as I wanted. Later that night in my Privacy Tarp I was wakened by someone crawling in, and, hitting my Abercrombie & Fitch night-light, I saw it was Slippen. Randy, I am so sorry for my part in all of this, he whispered. I just want to say you are a great kid and always have been since Day One and in truth I at times have felt you were more of a son than my own personal sons, and likewise with Carolyn, who was the daughter I never had. I did not know what to say to that, it being so personal and all, plus he was like laying or lying practically right on top of me and I could smell wine on his breath. We had always learned in Religion that if something is making you uncomfortable you should just say it, so I just said it, I said, Sir, this is making me uncomfortable. You know what is making me uncomfortable? he said. You lying here while poor Carolyn sits in the Lerner Center all alone, big as a house, scared to death. Randy, one only has one heart, and when that heart is breaking via thinking of what is in store for poor Carolyn, one can hardly be blamed for stepping in, can one? Can one? Randy, do you trust me? He had always been good to me, having taught me so much, like how to hit a Wiffle and how to do a pushup, and once had even brought in this trough and taught me and Ed and Josh to fish, and how fun was that, all of us laughing and feeling around on the floor for the fish we kept dropping during those moments of involuntary blindness that would occur as various fish-related LIs flashed in our heads, like the talking whale for Stouffer’s FishMeals (LI 38322), like the fish and loafs Jesus makes at LI 83722 and then that one dude goes, Lord, this bread is dry, can you not summon up some ButterSub? I trust you, I said. Then come on, he said, and crawled out of my Privacy Tarp. We crossed the Common Area and went past Catering, which I had never been that far before, and soon were standing in front of this door labelled Caution Do Not Open Without Facility Personnel Accompaniment. Randy, do you know what is behind this door? Slippen said. No, I said. Take a look, he said. And smiling a smile like that mother on Christmas morning at LI 98732 for Madpets.com, who throws off the tablecloth to reveal a real horse in their living room chewing on the rug, Slippen threw open that door. Looking out, I saw no walls and no rug and no ceiling, only lawn and flowers, and above that a wide black sky with stars, which all of that made me a little dizzy, there being no glass between me and it. Then Slippen very gently pushed me out. And I don’t know, it is one thing to look out a window, but when you are Out, actually Out, that is something very powerful, and how embarrassing was that, because I could not help it, I went down flat on my gut, checking out those flowers, and the feeling of the one I chose was like the silk on that Hermès jacket I could never seem to get Reserved because Vance was always hogging it, except the flower was even better, it being very smooth and built in like layers? With the outside layer being yellow, and inside that a white thing like a bell, and inside the white bell-like thing were fifteen (I counted) smaller bell-like red things, and inside each red thing was an even smaller orange two-dingly-thing combo. Which I was like, Dude, who thought this shit up? And though I knew very well from Religion it was God, still I had never thought so high of God as I did just then, seeing the kind of stuff He could do when He put His or Her mind to it. Also amazing was, laying there on my gut, I was able to observe very slowly some grass, on a blade basis! And what I found was, each blade is its total own blade, they are not all exact copies as I had always thought when looking at the Rustic Village Apartment lawn from the much coveted window seat, no, each blade had a special design of up-and-down lines on it, plus some blades were wider than others, and some were yellow, with some even having little holes that I guessed had been put there via bugs chewing them? By now as you know I am sometimes a kidder, with Humor always ranked by my peers as one of my Principal Positives on my Yearly Evaluation, but being totally serious? If I live one million years I will never forget all the beautiful things I saw and experienced in that kickass outside yard. Isn’t it something? Slippen said. But look, stand up, here is something even better. And I stood up, and here came this bland person in blue scrubs, which my first thought was, Ouch, why not accentuate that killer bone structure with some makeup, and also what is up with that dull flat hair, did you never hear of Bumble & Bumble Plasma Volumizer? And then she said my name. Not my name of Randy but my real name of Jon. Which is how I first got the shock of going, Oh my God, this poor washed-out gal is my Carolyn. And wow was her belly bigger! Then she touched my face very tender and said, The suspense of waiting is over and this year’s Taurus far exceeds expectations already high in this humble farming community. And I was like, Carolyn? And she was like, The beauty of a reunion by the sea of this mother and son will not soon again be parted and all one can say is amen and open another bag of chips, which by spreading on a thin cream on the face strips away the harsh effect of the destructive years. Then she hugged me, which is when I saw the gaping hole in her neck where her gargadisk had formerly been. But tell the truth, even with DermaFilled® neckhole and nada makeup and huge baby belly, still she looked so pretty, it was like someone had put a light inside her and switched it on. But I guess it is true what they say at LI 23005, life is full of ironic surprises, where that lady in a bikini puts on sunscreen and then there is this nuclear war and she takes a sip of her drink only she has been like burned to a crisp, because all that time Out not one LI had come up, as if my mind was stymied or holding its breath, but now all of the sudden here came all these LIs of Flowers, due to I had seen those real-life flowers, such as talking daisies for Polaroid (LI 101119), such as that kid who drops a jar of applesauce but his anal mom totally melts when he hands her a sunflower (LI 22365), such as the big word PFIZER that as you pan closer is made of roses (LI 88753), such as LI 73486, where as you fly over wildflowers to a Acura Legend on a cliff the announcer goes, Everyone is entitled to their own individual promised land. And I blinked on Pause but it did not Pause, and blinked on End but it did not End. Then up came LIs of Grass, due to I had seen that lawn, such as an old guy sprinkling grass seed while repetitively checking out his neighbor girl who is sunbathing, and then in spring he only has grass in that one spot (LI 11121), such as LI 76567, with a sweeping lawn leading up to a mansion for Grey Poupon, such as (LI 00391) these grass blades screaming in terror as this lawnmower approaches but then when they see it is a Toro they put on little party hats. Randy, can you hear me? Slippen said. Do you see Carolyn? She has been waiting out here an hour. During that hour she has been going where she wants, looking at whatever she likes. See what she is doing now? Simply enjoying the night. And that was true. Between flinches and blinks on End I could dimly persee her sitting cross-legged near me, not flinching, not blinking, just looking pretty in the moonlight with a look on her face of deep concern for me. Randy, this could all be yours, Slippen was saying. This world, this girl! And then I must have passed out. Because when I came to I was sitting inside that door marked Caution Do Not Open Without Facility Personnel Accompaniment, with my Paperwork in my lap and all my Coördinators standing around me. Randy, Dove said. Larry Slippen here claims that you wish to Exit. Is this the case? Did you in fact Request your Paperwork, then thrust it at him? O.K., I said. Yes. So they rushed me to Removals, where this nurse Vivian was like, Welcome, please step behind that screen and strip off, then put these on. Which I did, I dropped my Calvin Klein khakis and socks and removed my Country Road shirt as well as my Old Navy boxers, and put on the dreaded blue scrubs. Best of luck, Randy, Slippen said, leaning in the door. You’ll be fine. Out out out, Vivian said. Then she gave me this Patient Permission Form, which the first question was, Is patient aware of risk of significantly reduced postoperative brain function? And I wrote, Yes. And then it said, Does patient authorize Dr. Edward Kenton to perform all procedures associated with a complete gargadisk removal, including but not limited to e-wire severance, scar-tissue removal, forceful Kinney Maneuver (if necessary to fully disengage gargadisk), suturing, and postoperative cleansing using the Foreman Vacuum Device, should adequate cleaning not be achievable via traditional methods? And I wrote, Yes. I have been here since Wednesday, due to Dr. Kenton is at a wedding. I want to thank Vivian for all this paper, and Mr. Slippen for being the father I never had, and Carolyn for not giving up on me, and Dr. Kenton, assuming he does not screw it up. (Ha ha, you know, Dr. Kenton, I am just messing with you, even if you do screw it up, I know you tried your best. Only please do not screw it up, ha ha ha!) Last night they let Carolyn send me a fax from the Lerner Center, and it said, I may not look my best or be the smartest apple on the applecart but, believe me, in time I will again bake those ninety-two pies. And I faxed back, However you are is fine with me, I will see you soon, look for me, I will be the one with the ripped-up neck, smacking himself in the head! No matter what, she faxed, at least we will now have a life, that life dreamed of by so many, living in freedom with all joys and all fears, bring it on, I say, the balloon of our excitement will go up up up, to that land which is the land of true living, we will not be denied! I love you, I wrote. I love you too, she wrote. Which I thought that was pretty good, it being so simple and all, and it gave me hope. Because maybe we can do it. Maybe we can come to be normal, and sit on our porch at night, the porch of our own house, like at LI 87326, where the mom knits and the dad plays guitar and the little kid works very industrious with his Speak & Spell, and when we talk, it will make total sense, and when we look at the stars and moon, if choosing to do that, we will not think of LI 44387, where the moon frowns down at this dude due to he is hiding in his barn eating Rebel CornBells instead of proclaiming his SnackLove aloud, we will not think of LI 09383, where this stork flies through some crying stars who are crying due to the baby who is getting born is the future Mountain Dew Guy, we will not think of that alien at LI 33081 descending from the sky going, Just what is this thing called a Cinnabon? In terms of what we will think of, I do not know. When I think of what we will think of, I draw this like total blank and get scared, so scared my Peripheral Area flares up green, like when I have drank too much soda, but tell the truth I am curious, I think I am ready to try. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Class Picture	Credit Photograph by Constantine Manos / Magnum Robert Frost made his visit in November of 1960, just a week after the general election. It tells you something about our school that the prospect of his arrival cooked up more interest than the contest between Nixon and Kennedy, which for most of us was no contest at all. Nixon was a straight arrow and a scold. If he’d been one of us, we would have glued his shoes to the floor. Kennedy, now—Kennedy was a warrior, an ironist, terse and unhysterical. He had his clothes under control. His wife was a fox. And he read and wrote books, one of which, “Why England Slept,” was required reading in my honors-history seminar. We recognized Kennedy; we could still see in him the boy who would have been a favorite here, roguish and literate, with that almost formal insouciance that both enacted and discounted the fact of his class. We would never have admitted that class played any part in our liking for Kennedy. Ours was not a snobbish school—or so it believed, and we wanted this to be true. It was understood that some of the boys might get a leg up thanks to their famous names or great wealth, but, if privilege immediately gave them a place, the rest of us liked to think that it was a perilous place; you could never advance in it, you could only try not to lose it by talking too much about the débutante parties you went to or the Jaguar you had earned by turning sixteen, and meanwhile, absent other distinctions, you were steadily giving ground to a system of honors that valued nothing you hadn’t done for yourself. Or that was the idea, an idea so deeply held that it was never spoken; you breathed it in with the smell of floor wax and wool and boys living close together in overheated rooms. Never uttered, so never challenged. If our school had a snobbery it would confess to, it was its pride in being a literary place—quite aside from the glamorous writers who visited three times a year. Our headmaster had studied with Frost at Amherst and once published a collection of poems, “Sonnets Against the Storm,” which it now pained him to be reminded of. Dean Makepeace had been a friend of Hemingway’s during the First World War and was said to have served as the model for Jake’s fishing buddy Bill in “The Sun Also Rises.” The other English masters carried themselves as if they, too, were intimates of Hemingway, and also of Shakespeare and Hawthorne and Donne. These men seemed to us a kind of chivalric order. Even boys without bookish hopes aped their careless style of dress and the ritual swordplay of their speech. And at the headmaster’s monthly teas I was struck by the way the other masters floated at the fringe of the English masters’ circle, as if warming themselves at a fire. How did they command such deference—English teachers? Compared with the men who taught physics and biology, what did they really know of the world? It seemed to me, and not only to me, that they knew what was most worth knowing. Unlike our math and science teachers, who modestly stuck to their subjects, they tended to be polymaths. Adept as they were at dissection, they would never leave a poem or a novel strewn about in pieces like some butchered frog reeking of formaldehyde. They would put it back together with history and psychology, philosophy, religion; even, on occasion, science. Without pandering to your presumed desire to identify with the hero of a story, they made you feel that what mattered to the writer had consequence for you, too. There was a tradition at my school by which one boy was chosen for a private audience with each writer who visited. We contended for this honor by submitting a piece of our own work (poetry if the visitor was a poet, fiction if a novelist), with the winner to be chosen by the writer a week or so before the visit. By custom, only sixth formers, boys in their final year of school, were allowed to compete. That meant that I had spent the past three years looking on helplessly as boy after boy was plucked from the crowd of suitors and invited to stroll between the headmaster’s prize roses in the blessed and blessing presence of literature itself, to speak of deep matters and receive counsel, and afterward be able to say, You liked “By Love Possessed”? You’re kidding. I mean, Jesus, you ought to hear Mary McCarthy on the subject of Cozzens. . . . It was hard to bear, especially when the winning manuscript came from the hand of someone you didn’t like or, worse, from a boy who wasn’t even known to be a contender—though this had happened just once in my years of waiting in the wings, when an apparent philistine named Hurst won an audience with Edmund Wilson for a series of satirical odes in Latin. The visiting writers didn’t know us, so no one could accuse them of playing favorites, but that didn’t stop us from disputing their tastes. How could Robert Penn Warren, for instance, prefer Kit Morton’s plain dying-grandmother story to Lance Leavitt’s stream-of-consciousness monologue from the viewpoint of a condemned man smoking his last cigarette while pouring daringly profane contempt over the judgment of a world that punishes you for one measly murder while ignoring the murder of millions? It didn’t seem right that Lance, who defied the decorums of language and bourgeois morality, should have to look on while Robert Penn Warren walked the garden with a sentimentalist like Kit (whose story, through its vulgar nakedness of feeling, had moved me to secret tears). I’m not exaggerating the importance to us of these trophy meetings. We cared. And I cared as much as anyone, because I not only read writers; I read about writers. I knew that Maupassant, whose stories I loved, had been taken up when young by Flaubert and Turgenev; Faulkner by Sherwood Anderson; Hemingway by Fitzgerald and Pound and Gertrude Stein. All these writers were welcomed by other writers. It seemed to follow that you needed such a welcome, yet before this could happen you had somehow, anyhow, to meet the writer who was to welcome you. My idea of how this worked wasn’t low or even practical; I never thought about making connections. My aspirations were mystical. I wanted to receive the laying on of hands that had written stories and poems, hands that had touched the hands of other writers. I wanted to be anointed. Frost’s visit was announced in early October. At first the news made me giddy, but that night I grew morose with the dread of defeat. I couldn’t sleep. Finally I got up and sat at my desk with two notebooks full of poetry I’d written when taking a break from stories. While my roommate muttered in his dreams I bent over the notebooks and read piece after piece like: song (#8) to the hopeless of the hopeless of the night i sing my song and hopeless end my song and do not pity me for i am without hope and do not pity them for they are without hope and There the poem ended. Beneath it I had written “fragment.” I’d written “fragment” beneath most of the poems in the notebooks, and this description was in every case accurate. Each of them had been composed in some fit of ardor or philosophy which deserted me before I could bring it to the point of significance. The few poems that I had finished seemed, in the hard circle of light thrown by the gooseneck lamp, even more disappointing. The beauty of a fragment is that it still supports the hope of brilliant completeness. I thought of stitching several of them together into a sequence, à la “The Waste Land,” but that they would thereby become meaningful seemed too much to hope for. I would have to write something new. The deadline for submission was three weeks away. I could write a poem in that time, but what kind of poem should I write? Aside from being good, it would have to stand out from the poems of my competitors, that was the problem. At least I knew (barring some dark horse like Hurst) who my competitors were. There were three. George Kellogg was the editor of our literary review, Troubadour, and a proficient writer, mainly of poetry. He wrote in traditional forms, especially the villanelle, and you could tell, reading his poetry, that he knew his stuff. His lines scanned, he used alliteration and personification. Metonymy. His poems always had a theme and were full of sympathy for the little people of the world: an old man picking his way across a fairground the morning after the fair; an old woman slowly gathering her things in a darkened theatre after everyone has left. She dons her scarf, she dons her balding fur; She takes her time, ’til Time at last takes her. I didn’t really believe that George would win. He had a certain mastery and he gave occasional intimations of power in reserve, but his poems bored me stiff. He seemed more professor than writer, with his hairy tweed cap and watch chain and slow, well-considered speech. The effect was less stuffy than dear, and that was his problem; he was too dear, too kind. I never heard him say a hard word about anyone, and it visibly grieved him when the rest of us made sport of our schoolmates. At our editorial meetings, he argued for almost every submission, even knowing that we could take only a fraction of them. It was maddening. You couldn’t tell whether he actually liked a piece or just hated turning people down. George’s benevolence did not serve his writing well. For all its fluent sympathy, it had no bite. Still, I knew better than to write George off. If he just once let a strong feeling get the better of his manners, he might land a hard one. He might win. So might Bill White, my roommate. Bill had already written most of a novel, of which we’d published the first chapter in Troubadour. A surgeon and a famous actor and his wife are isolated in a hunting lodge during a blizzard. The men are old friends, but it emerges that the actor’s wife is having an affair with the surgeon, who, it turns out, once saved the actor’s life with an impromptu tracheotomy during a safari: Buy the print » Have to take my hat off to you, said Montague. Tricky bit of tradecraft, given the circumstances. Storm blowing the damned tent down, and the beaters into the liquor. I shan’t forget it. Not at all, not at all, said Dr. Coates. The merest intern could have done as well—probably better. I shan’t forget it, Montague repeated. I’m forever in your debt, he added coldly. Aren’t we all, said Ashley, pouring herself another Scotch. She stared at the falling snow. What ever would we do without the good doctor’s services? You bitch, said Montague. You perfectly beautiful bitch. Bill hadn’t let me read the rest of his novel but I doubted that the hunting party’s meticulously described rifles would stay locked in their cases for long. Bill was a contender. His characters were stilted but he had confidence, and his stories were eventful and closely detailed. Most of the work in Troubadour suffered from generality. Bill’s talent was particularity. How the snow creaked underfoot on a very cold clear day, how the low white sun looked through a tangle of black branches. The tackiness of a just-oiled rifle stock, the sound of a bored woman brushing out her long hair in front of a fire. Everything in his work was specific and true except the people. That was a problem in the longer pieces, but in Bill’s shortest, most implicit stories, and in his occasional poems, the exactitude and poise of his writing could carry you away. He had me worried. So did Jeff Purcell, known as Little Jeff because we had in our class another Jeff Purcell, his cousin—Big Jeff. In fact, Little Jeff wasn’t little and Big Jeff wasn’t big, just bigger than Little Jeff, who resented Big Jeff, partly no doubt for inadvertently imposing this odious nickname on him. Little Jeff was a friend of mine, so, like his other friends, I called him Purcell. Purcell habitually kept his arms folded across his chest, like a Civil War general in a daguerreotype. This bellicose pose suited him. Under his bristling crewcut, he cultivated a sulfurous gift for invective and contempt. He was the Herod of our editorial sessions, poised to strike down every innocent who presumed to offer us a manuscript. He had exacting standards: moral, political, aesthetic. Purcell even flouted the timeless protocol of pretending to admire the work of his fellow-editors. At one of our meetings, he declared that a story of mine called “Suicide Note” read as if it’d been written after the narrator blew his brains out. Purcell came from a rich, social family, but you wouldn’t have guessed it from his stories and poems; or maybe you would have. His subject was the injustice of relations between high and low. He had written a ballad about a miner being dispatched deep into the earth to perish in a cave-in while the mine owner hand-feeds filet mignon to his hunting dogs, cooing to them in baby talk; and his last Troubadour piece was an epistolary story in which a general writes congratulatory letters to various widows after sending their husbands to be slaughtered: You may rejoice for your fallen hero, knowing that his heart was perforated for our glorious cause, and you and your little ones can rest assured that his missing head, wherever it may be, is filled with the pride of sacrifice and radiant memories of the homeland for which he died so eagerly. This story was, I felt sure, inspired by a certain passage in “A Farewell to Arms,” but when it came up for consideration I bit my tongue and let it go. It wasn’t bad. Cartoonish, of course, like all of Purcell’s work, lurid and overwrought, but venomously alive. Anyway, I myself was in debt to Hemingway—up to my ears. So was Bill. We even talked like Hemingway characters, though in travesty, as if to deny our discipleship: That is your bed, and it is a good bed, and you must make it and you must make it well. Today is the day of meat loaf. The meat loaf is swell. It is swell but when it is gone the not-having meat loaf is tragic and the meatloaf man will not come anymore. All of us owed someone—someone, and more than someone. We wouldn’t have admitted it in so many words, but the knowledge was surely there, because the charge of imitation was the only charge we never brought against the submissions we mocked so cruelly. There was no profit in it. Once crystallized, consciousness of influence would have been fatal to the collective and necessary fantasy that our work was purely our own. Even Purcell kept mum on the subject. He was a threat. His attack was broad, even crude, yet if he humanized his targets, muted his voice, used a knife instead of a cudgel . . . But he didn’t necessarily have to do any of that. In a field of stiffs, one of his cartoons could win for simply being alive. These, then, were the boys who stood between me and Robert Frost. Of course there were other self-confessed writers in my form, but in our English classes and as an editor of Troubadour I’d read their work and I hadn’t seen anything to worry me except their desire. So much desire! Why did so many of us want to be writers? It seemed unreasonable. But there were reasons, and one of them had to do with the problem of class. Despite our school’s hierarchy of character and deeds, class was a fact. It was not just the clothes a boy wore but the way he wore them. How he spent his summers. The games he knew how to play. His way of turning cold at the mention of money, or at the spectacle of ambition too nakedly revealed. You felt it as a depth of ease around certain boys, their innate, affable assurance that they would not have to struggle for a place in the world. A depth of ease or, in the case of Purcell and a few others, a sullen antipathy toward the padding that hemmed them in and muffled the edges of life; yet even in the act of kicking against it they were defined by it, and protected by it, and to some extent unconscious of it. Purcell himself had a collection of first editions you’d almost have to own a mine to afford. Maybe that was why so many of us wanted to become writers. Maybe it seemed to us that to be a writer was to escape the problems of blood and class. Writers formed a tribe of their own and regarded the others from a position outside the common hierarchy. This gave them a power not conferred by privilege—the power to create images of the system they stood apart from, and thereby to judge it. We had talked in class about Pasternak and his troubles, and the long history of Russian writers being imprisoned or killed for not writing as the Party wished. Augustus Caesar had sent our Latin master’s beloved Ovid into exile. Yet the effect of these stories was to make me feel not Caesar’s power but his fear of Ovid. And why would Caesar fear Ovid, unless he knew that all his legions could not protect him from a good line of poetry? The weekend before our Frost submissions were due, there was a fire at the school. Fire was the great nightmare. Early in the century, a residential house had burned to the ground with thirteen boys inside, and the fire was said to have been started by a cigarette. How anyone could know that, we didn’t ask. It was revealed truth. And it led to a commandment: Thou shalt not smoke. Get caught and you were out, that day. Even the softest masters were without mercy on this point. A boy would return from swimming practice and find his roommate gone, hangers tinkling in an empty closet, the other mattress stripped and doubled over. No announcements made. No lessons preached. Despite this, an unteachable cadre of resolutes, including me, kept smoking anyway. I’d sneaked the occasional gasper since eighth grade but at school it became an obsession. I was crazy for cigarettes, yet my true addiction was to the desperate, all-or-nothing struggle to maintain a habit in the face of unceasing official vigilance. I smoked in freezers and storage lockers and steam tunnels. I joined the Classical Music Club so that I could smoke in the bathrooms of the concert halls we visited, and went out for cross-country so that I could smoke while running in the woods. I kept a store of spearmint Life Savers to mask my breath and used a holder so my fingers wouldn’t stain. It was fretful, laborious work, but when I sucked down that first deep pang of smoke I went dizzy with pleasure. Then I almost got caught. I’d been smoking in the basement of the chapel with another boy, who was discovered there by the padre just minutes after I left. I was putting music in the choir stalls—my chore that week—when the two of them came upstairs and walked down the aisle, the padre sad but decided, holding the boy by the elbow, and the boy . . . I could only glance at him, but I saw enough. He was in free fall, still trying to believe that he was only in a dream of falling. He lived in New York. It would be a long night’s ride down on the train, alone. I could easily see myself on that train. My journey wouldn’t stop in New York, though. I’d have to catch the gritty Century to Chicago, then change to the Great Northern—day after day of rolling past factories and fields and deserts and mountains but seeing none of it, gazing at my own stunned reflection in the glass. Lying sleepless in my bed that night, I saw the school as I would have seen it from an impossible distance, crossing the plains in a darkened railway car, headed back to the chaos and muddle I’d come from. I saw the school as if I were leaving it forever, and the thought made me sick at heart. I never smoked at school again. But the temptation was persistent, and sometimes I could almost hear the old crew puffing away in the basements and attics. So my first thought when the sirens came wailing up the drive that Sunday afternoon was that one of those poor fiends had sparked a blaze somewhere and would pay the price that very hour. Who would it be? “I really can’t explain it too much except to say that it’s part of a court order.”Buy the print » I was coming out of the library. From the top of the steps I could see a thick braid of smoke twisting up over the old field house. I had been holed up most of the weekend, trying to finish my poem for the Robert Frost competition. What I’d been working on was a hunter’s elegiac meditation over the body of an elk he’s killed after tracking it for days through the mountains. This wasn’t typical of my poems, abstract and devoid of narrative as they tended to be. It fell into the pattern of a group of my stories in which a young fellow named Sam evaded the civilizing demands of his socialite mother and logger-baron father by fleeing into the forests of Washington State, where he did much hunting and fishing and laconic romancing with free-spirited women he met on the trail. I had begun this series innocently enough, in unconscious tribute to the Nick Adams stories, but over time it had evolved into something less honest. I wanted to be taken for Sam by my schoolmates, who knew nothing of my life at home. But I was having trouble with this poem. For one thing, how was the hunter, having followed the elk so far into the woods, going to get it out? How big was an elk, anyway? Really big, I guessed. The hunter, having offered thanks to the spirit of the elk for giving him all that meat, was going to look ridiculous walking away with one lousy haunch over his shoulder. Maybe I should have made it a regular deer. But “deer” didn’t have the majesty of “elk.” There was a lot to fix, and not much time left to fix it. The poem was due the next morning. A crowd was gathered at the near end of the football field. The firemen stood by their truck drinking coffee and taking turns with the hose. There were no flames, but the shingles had burned through at one end, exposing a sheet of charred sub-roofing that sent up a greasy hiss of smoke as the water played over it. I asked the boy next to me how the fire had started, and without taking his eyes off the field house he mumbled something about Jeff Purcell. Purcell. The news gave me a knock because he was my friend, and because he had invited me to spend Thanksgiving vacation with his family in Boston, and now I could look forward to nothing better than another stretch with my boring grandfather and his boring wife in a housing development outside Baltimore. False alarm! It wasn’t my Purcell, Little Jeff, who’d started the fire. It was his cousin, Big Jeff. Big Jeff had a passion. He believed that our destiny was to leave Earth behind and colonize other planets. In fifth form, he had started the Rocket Club, and though he couldn’t find any members in our class—we were too busy licking our chops for a great big bite of this planet—he did manage to recruit a few younger boys out of the Science Fiction Club. The Rocket Club met on the football field on Sunday afternoons under the eye of the chemistry master and shot off whatever they’d cooked up in the lab that week. Big Jeff had been experimenting with a two-stage rocket, but instead of going straight up the missile cut a few loops and took a dive onto the old field-house roof, where the explosive booster detonated in a clump of old pine needles and leaves. Whoosh! I started a new poem that night. It was the fire that got me going, the fire and the firemen in their open rubber coats and high gaping boots, the looks they sneaked at us and the masters and the school itself, taking it all in. Their curiosity made me look around, too. For a moment, I saw this place as I had first seen it. How beautiful it was, and how odd. I felt its seclusion and the way we’d come to resemble each other in that seclusion. We dressed so much alike that the inflections we did allow ourselves (tasselled loafers for the playboy, a black turtleneck for the rebel) were probably invisible to an outsider. Our clothes, the way we wore our hair, the very set of our mouths marked us like tribal tattoos. The firemen looked us over, and we looked them over. There was one fireman in particular I found myself watching. He had deep-set, tired-looking eyes, and held himself a little apart. He was less covert than the others in sizing us up. I thought about him after they had finished and driven away. That was how I came to write my new poem, a narrative poem in which I described a fireman coming home the morning after a big blaze. He’s been the hero of the night, braving walls of flame to rescue a little girl. Now it’s over. He goes home, and it’s Saturday morning and his kids are watching cartoons and his wife is talking on the phone. She waves and keeps talking. He fries himself some eggs but doesn’t eat them. He’s oppressed by the crumbs on the kitchen table, the dirty cereal bowls, the smell of burned toast and last night’s fish. His wife laughs into the phone. The television is too loud. Then he’s on his feet and in the living room and he’s just yelled something, he doesn’t know what, and his children are looking at him with dislike and contempt. I thought writing should give me pleasure, and generally it did. But I didn’t like writing this poem. I did it grudgingly, as if I had no choice, but in a kind of heat, too. In the end, I didn’t submit it. Maybe it was good, maybe not. Maybe it wasn’t even a poem, only a fragment of a story in broken lines. I couldn’t tell. It was too close to home; it was home—the mess, the noise, the smells, all of this just like our place on a Saturday morning. The sense of time dying, drop by drop, of stalled purpose and the close, almost aquarium atmosphere of confinement and repetition. The convulsive, futile demand for recognition and respect. I could hear and see everything in that apartment, down to the pattern in the Formica tabletop. I could see myself there, and didn’t want to. Even more, I didn’t want anyone else to. I submitted the elk-hunter poem. “Red Snow,” I called it. The day after John F. Kennedy won the Presidency, George Kellogg won the audience with Robert Frost. Our school newspaper printed his poem in a box on the front page. It was a dramatic monologue in which an old farmer feels the bite of mortality on the first cold day of autumn. George had used an odd mixture of tones. At one point the farmer is lyrically drooling at the sight of a hired girl milking a cow: Old rooster struts the rafters while the barncat begs Mewing at her feet in the stall where Flossie stands, As with swift hard strokes of her soft white hands She pulls the foaming cream into the pail between her legs. A few stanzas down he becomes a terse fatalist: Corn’s high in the silo, hay’s stacked in the loft, Cordwood’s halfway to the roof, doorcracks plugged with clay. So let come what will, hard ground, short day, I’ve done all I am able—and after all, the snow is soft. The poem was entitled, shamelessly, “First Frost.” In a telephone interview about the poem, Robert Frost told our reporter, “Young Kellogg has had some fun at this old man’s expense, and I guess this old man can stand some fun, if it isn’t too expensive.” He seemed to think that George had written some sort of burlesque; that he was using the poet’s manner and material—perhaps his very name—to give him the needle. He sounded like a man who’d been stung by a taunt, showing that he could take it and come back with some chaff of his own. But if anything stumped me more than Frost’s thinking that George’s poem was a dig in the ribs, it was the idea of the monumental Robert Frost letting some versifying teen get his goat. It didn’t seem possible. I read the poem several times. I began to imagine that maybe it was satiric, and thus better than I’d first thought. But George set me straight when I went to his room that afternoon to congratulate him. He was sitting on his bed. He still had his tie on, a knitted tie with a flat bottom. It looked crocheted; it looked like a doily. Our biology master wore ties like that, but George was the only boy you’d catch dead in one. Most of the scholarship students, myself included, took some care with the figure they cut. Not George. He was both the oldest and the youngest of us, the most fuddy-duddy and the most innocent. What did you think of the poem, he asked me. I told him I liked it. Way to go! Robert Frost, George, you’re going to meet Robert Frost! Did you think I was . . . how did Mr. Frost put it . . . having fun at his expense? Well, I guess you could read it that way. You could? Nuts. He slumped like a puppet. But you don’t have to, I said. You can also read it as tribute. You know, the farm, the folksy tone, the snow. It’s like you’re paying your respects to him—tipping your hat, so to speak. Exactly! That’s exactly the way I meant it. As an hommage, he added. And, of course, the title, I said. You like the title? All those layers of meaning. “First Frost” as in, literally, the first frost of the year. Then “First Frost” in the symbolic sense, here comes winter; i.e. death, but also rest, right? The snow is soft, after all, after all the hard work he’s spent his life doing—soft and white like the girl’s hands. After all, in a funny way, he’s gonna get what he wants. Unless I’m just reading this stuff into it. . . . No! No, it’s all there. Then, I said, the crowning touch. “First Frost” as in First, Frost—as in Frost is tops, Frost is the best, Frost is literally No. 1. Exactly! Exactly. Robert Frost arrived at the school during dinner. When he appeared in the dining hall, slowly crossing from the side door with the headmaster, gingerly mounting the two steps to the high table, the ordinary din of the hall died almost to silence. We kept eating and tried not to stare, but we couldn’t help ourselves. Frost let himself down into the chair at the headmaster’s right, facing out toward the hall. He bent his big white head as he arranged his napkin, taking his time. He seemed deeply absorbed in the problem of the napkin. Then Dean Makepeace rose at the head of his table, turned toward Robert Frost, and began to clap in a measured, decorous way, each report of his hands sharp as a shot, and the rest of us jumped to our feet in a great scrape of chairs and made the hall thunderous with applause and the rhythmic drumming of our feet on the oaken floor. Frost gave a little bow with his head, but we kept the racket up, and finally his reserve broke and he smiled boyishly and rose partway in his chair and waved his napkin at us like a flag of surrender. “Now that I’ve been let go, the commute is all I have.”Buy the print » I was conscious of him through the rest of the meal, and held myself as though he were conscious of me. Some of the other boys at my table also suffered fits of dignity. The atmosphere in the hall had become theatrical. This had everything to do with Frost himself. There was an element of performance in his bearing—even the business with the napkin, awkward as it seemed, had a calculated quality. It charged the room and put us on edge, not at all unpleasantly—as if a glamorous woman were eating alongside us. Frost read in the chapel that night. The headmaster climbed the steps to the pulpit to introduce him. He was a lanky, long-faced man with a wen over his right eyebrow. It was a big blistery-looking thing and when you first met him you could see nothing else, but he soon distracted you by holding your eyes with his, deep-set and attentive, and with the arresting beauty of his voice. He had a profound bass full of gravel, which he used to good effect and to his own satisfaction. I had expected him to use this moment to take a swipe at the Ginsberg-Ferlinghetti crime family, which had a few soldiers among us. But no. Instead, the headmaster told a story of how, as a farm boy who’d never been interested in poetry, he had idly picked up his teacher’s copy of “North of Boston,” and read a poem entitled “After Apple-picking.” He’d approached it, he said, in a surly humor. He’d done more than a bit of apple-picking himself and was sure that this poem would try to make it fancy and romantic and get it all wrong. But what struck him first was how physically true the poem was, even down to that ache you get in the arch of your foot after standing on a ladder all day—not only the ache but the lingering pressure of the rung. And, once he had assented to the details, he was drawn to the poem’s more mysterious musings. What was that pane of ice about? Which part of the poem was dream, and which part memory? He borrowed the book, never suspecting where this act would lead him. Make no mistake, he said: a true piece of writing is a dangerous thing. It can change your life. He came back down the steps. That was all. No recitation of Frost’s honors and awards, no witty, polished reminiscences. I had never before heard the headmaster speak of himself in this way, as someone with a particular past, and never did again. He was a mystery to us, and, like great generals and actresses, he guarded his mystery like the power it was. He helped Robert Frost up the winding steps and then joined us in the pews. This left Frost alone at the front of the church. He arranged his books and some loose papers in a certain order, then rearranged them. The papers rustled loudly under the microphone. At this, he stopped and inspected the mike as if the device were new to him. He tapped it suspiciously. The tap made a resounding knock and he shied back a little. He picked up a book, rifled through the pages, set it down again. He peered out at us. Can you hear me? You can hear me, you boys in the back? Well then. Good. That’s good. I suppose I should read you a poem. But I was just thinking about something Shelley said . . . you know, Shelley, fellow who wrote “Ozymandias”—it’s in your books. Friend of Byron, friend of Keats. Anyway, Shelley liked to say that we poets are the unacknowledged legislators of mankind. They used to speak like that in those days—by the pound. Unacknowledged legislators of mankind. Wonder if it’s true. Wonder what it means. Does it mean we’re dangerous, like your headmaster says? What does your man Kellogg think? Is Mr. Kellogg here tonight? Frost waited, gazing out at us until George stood up, a couple of seats to my right. He looked furtive and damp. He looked like a sinner in a Last Judgment painting, about to get his due. And Frost, Frost looked like Himself up there in the pulpit. He was standing below one of the chandeliers, whose wintry light silvered his hair and made shadows on his weathered face. He didn’t look old; he looked eternal. He took George in. So, he said. Mr. Kellogg. That was quite a piece of legislation you wrote. Bet you had some fun with it, too, holding the old man’s feet to the fire. Good for you, good for you. Old men should have their feet held to the fire—keeps ’em awake. All right, boys, they’ve brought me down here to sing for my supper, so I’d better do some singing. I wrote this one when I was lonely for home, many years ago, in England. I expect you boys know about homesickness. It’s called “Mending Wall.” He lowered his eyes to read, and George wilted back into the pew. Something there is that doesn’t love a wall, That sends the frozen-ground-swell under it, And spills the upper boulders in the sun Frost picked his way slowly through the first line, as if the thought were just occurring to him. And then his dry voice filled like a sail and became good-humored and natural and young. He was good at masking his eyes under those hanging brows of his, but now and then I saw him shift his gaze from the page to us without losing a word. He wasn’t reading; he was reciting. He knew the poems by heart, yet he continued to make a show of reading them, even to the extent of pretending to lose his place or have trouble with the light. His awkwardness took nothing from his poems. Rather, it removed them from the page and put them back in the voice, a speculative, sometimes cunning, sometimes faltering voice. In print, under his great name, the poems had the look of inevitability; in his voice you caught the hesitation and perplexity behind them, the sound of a man brooding them into being. Frost read on, poem after poem, until the underclassmen began to cough and set their pews groaning. Then he raised his head and took us in. You boys are champion sitters, he said. You’ve got Sitzfleisch, as our great new friends the Germans would say. That’s enough for one night, eh? Maybe just one more, what do you think, for your man Kellogg. Yes? All right then. I have just the poem here. Still looking at us, Frost recited “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.” Then he gathered his books and papers while we applauded. The headmaster went up the steps, conferred with Frost, came down again and raised his hand for silence. He told us that Mr. Frost had agreed to take a few questions, if we had any. I had questions. How did he know he was a good writer all those years when nobody else knew? What did it feel like to write something really great? Why did he choose George’s poem? Sir, if I may. I looked around. It was Mr. Ramsey, one of the masters. He was standing in his pew. Even in this dimness his chubby cheeks showed their youthful English bloom. Mrs. Ramsey plucked at something on her sleeve. He had married her four years earlier out of some Southern women’s college where he’d taught right after leaving Oxford. She was just a freshman at the time and Mr. Ramsey lost his job and brought her north to Putney and then to us. Mrs. Ramsey worked in the library and never lacked for boys needing help. She wore her honey-colored hair in long girlish braids, and she had a teasing way with us. She looked at us as if she knew what we were thinking. She had still been in love with Mr. Ramsey when they’d arrived two years back. We had all seen it. She’d hung on his voice, quoted his pronouncements. Lately, this had changed. I’d seen her look bored at dinner, while Mr. Ramsey was going on about something. On occasion, she turned away while he was still talking and began to chat with the boy next to her. Your work, sir, Mr. Ramsey said, follows a certain tradition, shall we say, a formal tradition, as in that last poem you read, “Stopping in Woods.” I wonder— “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening,” Frost said. He put both hands on the pulpit and peered at Mr. Ramsey. Yes, sir. Now that particular poem is not unusual in your work for being written in stanza form, with iambic lines connected by rhyme. Good for you, Frost said. They must be teaching you boys something here. There was a great eruption of laughter, more caustic than jolly. Mr. Ramsey waited it out as Frost looked slyly around the chapel, the lord of misrule. He was not displeased by the havoc his mistake had caused, you could see that, and you had to wonder if it was a mistake at all. Finally he said, You had a question? Yes, sir. The question is whether such a rigidly formal arrangement of language is adequate to express the modern consciousness. Modern consciousness, Frost said. What’s that? Ah! Good question, sir. Well—very roughly speaking, I would describe it as the mind’s response to industrialization, the saturation propaganda of governments and advertisers, two world wars, the concentration camp, the dimming of faith by science, and, of course, the constant threat of annihilation. Surely these things have had an effect on us. Surely they have changed our thinking. Surely nothing, Frost said. He stared down at Mr. Ramsey. Don’t tell me about science, he went on. I’m something of a scientist myself. Botany. You boys know what tropism is? That’s what makes a plant grow toward the light. Everything aspires to the light. You don’t have to chase down a fly to get rid of it—you just darken the room and leave a crack of light in a window, and out he goes. Works every time. We all have that instinct . . . that aspiration. Science can’t—what was the word? dim?—science can’t dim that. All science can do is turn out the false lights in the room so the true light can get us home. Mr. Ramsey began to say something, but Frost kept going. So don’t tell me about science, he said, and don’t tell me about war. I lost my nearest friend in the one they call the Great War. So did Achilles lose his friend in war, and Homer did no injustice to his grief by writing about it in dactylic hexameters. There’ve always been wars, and they’ve always been as foul as we could make them. It is very fine and pleasant to think ourselves the most put-upon folk in history, but then everyone has thought that from the beginning—it makes a grand excuse for all manner of laziness. But about my friend. I wrote a poem for him. I still write poems for him. Would you honor your own friend by putting words down anyhow, just as they come to you—no thought for the sound they make, the meaning of their sound, the sound of their meaning? He broke off and let his eyes roam over the room. “It’s a pity they had to stop work on the new mall.”Buy the print » I am thinking of Achilles’ grief, he said. That famous grief . . . that terrible grief. Let me tell you boys something. Such grief can only be told in form. Maybe it only really exists in form. Form is everything. Without it you’ve got nothing but a stubbed-toe sort of cry, sincere maybe, for what that’s worth, but with no depth or carry. No echo. You may have a grievance, but you don’t have grief, and grievances are for petitions, not poetry. Does that answer your question? I’m not sure—but thank you for having a go at it. You wouldn’t have guessed, seeing Mr. Ramsey settle back with a smile, that he’d just been stepped on by Robert Frost in front of the whole school. He had been my fifth-form English teacher and though I hadn’t liked him I had found him interesting, as I had found his question to Frost interesting. But many of his students thought him a humbug for his high diction and unyieldingly intellectual tone. They had surely enjoyed this little show. The headmaster stood and led us in a last storm of applause and then we filed out of the chapel into a hard, freezing wind. I asked George if he was headed to Blaine Hall, where it was rumored that Robert Frost might drop by for a cup of mulled cider with the English Club. No, George said. He was going back to his room. Why? Scared he’ll give you the business? He was just teasing you, George. He shook his head. Mr. Frost really thinks my poem is some kind of mockery of his work. He’s the one who chose it. If it bothered him, why did he choose it? I don’t know why Mr. Frost chose my poem, he said. But he seems out of sorts about it. What the hell. You can clear things up with him when you have your audience tomorrow. If I have my audience. What, you think he’ll blow you off? I didn’t say that. George. Hold up. Hold up! We stopped on the path. The line of boys shuffled past us. A derelict kite flapped frantically in a tree. George looked away from me, tweed hat pulled low on his head, back to the wind. I think I’m coming down with something, he said. George, you can’t stand up Robert Frost. It wouldn’t count as standing him up if I was in the infirmary. You chickenshit. You big baby. George hunched deeper into his coat, hands jammed in the pockets. You don’t stand up Robert Frost, I said. This is something special. This is something to tell your kids about. Your grandkids! He won’t mind. He’ll be glad. George. This is really dumb. Where are you supposed to meet him, anyway? Headmaster’s parlor. When? After breakfast, George said, then he turned and looked at me. Why? Just wondered. Are you really going to back out? I don’t know. It’d be a complete waste if you backed out. I mean, he’s here, George. Robert Frost is here. This is the chance of a lifetime. He’s what, eighty-six, eighty-seven years old. It’s now or never. I understand that. So are you going to back out? Because if you are, there’s no point in a chance like that going to waste. I saw George begin to understand me. This has nothing to do with you, he said. I’m just saying, why throw a chance like this away? He’s willing to spend some time with one of us. If you won’t meet with him, let somebody else. He didn’t choose your poem. He chose my poem. Would you actually accept an honor you didn’t earn? Oh, like you earned it with those rhymes of yours? Please—we’re not talking about “Paradise Lost” here. George looked at me with cold curiosity. It unsettled me, but my blood was up and I couldn’t stop myself. Would I accept a meeting with Robert Frost? I said. An unearned meeting, as opposed to an earned meeting, like yours? You bet your sweet ass I would. George turned and started across the quad. I followed. Are you backing out or not? He didn’t answer. Wait’ll he gets you alone, you baby. He’ll chop you into little pieces. I stopped and watched him bend into the wind, coattails streaming. Robert Frost didn’t turn up in Blaine Hall that night, but Mrs. Ramsey did. Her solitary entrance put everyone on alert; it was as though a song were going up an octave. Faculty wives didn’t attend such gatherings without their husbands, and as the adviser to the English Club Mr. Ramsey was supposed to serve as host. Mrs. Ramsey said that he had a touch of the flu, and wanted her to stand in for him, and pay his respects should Robert Frost appear. I heard her tell this to some masters and their wives as she carried a plate of cookies around the crowded room. Bill White and I were standing by the fireplace when she approached us with the cookies. We each picked one, and as she repeated her brave little lie Bill reached out and took the plate from her and set it on the mantel. I was struck by his confidence. Somehow I didn’t like it, but I liked the result—having Mrs. Ramsey linger with us. She said she had seen Robert Frost read once before, when she was a student at Foxcroft, and afterward he had met with the lit’ry girls and talked about everything under the sun. He’d been very funny, which surprised her, though she supposed it shouldn’t have, and a terrible flirt. Of course, he got plenty of encouragement. The heat from the fire brought a flush to her face and made her perfume thicker, headier. She turned to Mr. Rice, an English master and a Southerner himself, who was tapping the ashes from his pipe into the fireplace. Do you think he’ll come tonight? she asked. Frost? I doubt it. He seemed pretty well played out, by the end there. Shoot, she said. Just then some of the boys started to sing, and others chimed in, the masters and their wives looking on tenderly. When I first arrived at the school I had wondered at the way a bunch of boys would suddenly give voice like this, on the bus coming home from a game, in a sound-swelling stone hallway. Now I knew the songs, too, and I quickened to those moments when we leaned together, watching each other for cues, and joined our voices. The singers began to gather around the fireplace. Mr. Rice gave way and drifted back toward the other masters, but Mrs. Ramsey stayed with us and was soon surrounded by the chorus we’d become. She swayed to the music, laughing softly at a witty stanza, closing her eyes at a romantic line. She didn’t so much listen to the songs as receive them, as if we were serenading her. And we were serenading her. She was a woman alone among us, eyes shining, color high, a pretty woman made beautiful by tribute of song. We could see our power to charm her and make her beautiful, and this gave boldness to our voices. It was exciting and not quite proper. When one of the masters called a halt to it after several numbers, pleading the lateness of the hour, we broke off as if coming out of a trance, hardly knowing where we were. Mrs. Ramsey seemed a little dazed herself, and skittish. She collected some dirty cups and wandered back to the cider bowl, where I saw her in conversation with the Greek master’s elderly wife. The next time I looked she was gone. Frost never showed. I stayed until the end, even offered to help with the clean-up, but the wives stuffed my pockets with cookies and sent me packing. After breakfast, I chanced some demerits and skipped my warm, easy chore—helping sort that morning’s mail—to stand by the gate to the headmaster’s garden. I kept my vigil for half an hour or so. No one came. I figured George had chickened out after all. But I was wrong. We walked to our dorm together after dinner that night—George couldn’t hold a grudge—and he told me he’d spent more than an hour alone with Frost in the headmaster’s parlor. They’d started talking and never made it outside. Frost didn’t say much about George’s poem, not in so many words, anyway, but he recited a few of his own and gave George some pointers. He also gave him an inscribed copy of his “Complete Poems,” and an invitation to drop by for a visit if he should ever find himself in Frost’s neighborhood. Ah, I said. Great. We walked along. Then George said that Frost had left him with some advice. What was that? Do you know where Kamchatka is? Not exactly. Alaska? Somewhere up there. Mr. Frost told me I was wasting my time in school. He said I should go to Kamchatka. Or Brazil. Kamchatka? Why Kamchatka? Why Brazil? He didn’t explain. He was going to, but then he had to leave. Jesus. Kamchatka. Kamchatka. Later that night I went to the library and looked up Kamchatka. It was a peninsula in the remote far east of the Soviet Union, on the Bering Sea. Very few people lived there. It was dark half the year so they couldn’t grow much of anything. They lived on the salted meat of salmon and also of bears, which greatly outnumbered the people and proved a sorrow to the unwary. When the taiga wasn’t frozen over, it swarmed with biting insects. There were many volcanos and they were active. The only picture in the Kamchatka entry showed two figures in parkas watching the top of a mountain being carried skyward on a fist of flame. I closed the encyclopedia and sat listening to the wind rattle the mullioned panes behind me. What was it about Kamchatka, that a young writer should forsake his schooling and go there? Spectacle, maybe. The drama of strange people living strangely. Danger. All this could be good matter for stories and poems. But Frost himself had lived in New England all his life at no cost to his art, and I wondered if he’d ever actually been there. I guessed not. But it meant something to him, Kamchatka, something to do with the writer’s life, and what else could it mean but hardship? Solitude, darkness, and hardship. But he had also mentioned Brazil. I rose from my deep chair and crossed the room past boys dozing over books and exchanged the “K” volume for “B.” ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Gallatin Canyon	The day we planned the trip, I told Louise that I didn't like going to Idaho via the Gallatin Canyon. It's too narrow, and while trucks don't belong on this road, there they are, lots of them. Tourist pulloffs and wild animals on the highway complete the picture. We could have gone by way of Ennis, but Louise had learned that there were road repairs on Montana Highway 84—twelve miles of torn-up asphalt—in addition to its being rodeo weekend, and “Do we have to go to Idaho?” she asked. I said that I thought it was obvious. A lot rode on the success of our little jaunt, which was ostensibly to close the sale of a small car dealership I owned in the sleepy town of Rigby. But, since accepting the offer of a local buyer, I had received a far better one from elsewhere, which, my attorney said, I couldn't take unless my original buyer backed out—and he would only back out if he got sufficiently angry at me. Said my attorney: Make him mad. So I was headed to Rigby, Idaho, expressly to piss off a small-town businessman, who was trying to give me American money for a going concern on the strip east of town, and thereby make room for a rich Atlanta investor, new to our landscapes, who needed this dealership as a kind of flagship for his other intentions. The question was how to provoke Rigby without arousing his suspicions, and I might have collected my thoughts a little better had I not had to battle trucks and tourists in the Gallatin Canyon. Louise and I had spent a lot of time together in recent years, and we were both probably wondering where things would go from here. She had been married, briefly, long ago, and that fact, together with the relatively peaceful intervening years, gave a pleasant detachment to most of her relationships, including the one she had with me. In the past, that would have suited me perfectly; but it did not seem to suit me now, and I was so powerfully attached to her it made me uncomfortable that she wasn't interested in discussing our mutual future, though at least she had never suggested that we wouldn't have one. With her thick blond hair pulled back in a barrette, her strong, shapely figure, and the direct fullness of her mouth, she was often noticed by other men. After ten years in Montana, she still had a strong Massachusetts accent. Louise was a lawyer, specializing in the adjudication of water rights between agricultural and municipal interests. In our rapidly changing world, she was much in demand. Though I wished we could spend more time together, Louise had taught me not to challenge her on this. No longer the country crossroads of recent memory, Four Corners was filled with dentists' offices, fast-food and espresso shops, large and somehow foreboding filling stations that looked, at night, like colonies in space; nevertheless, the intersection was true to its name, sending you north to a transcontinental interstate, east into town, west to the ranches of Madison County, and south, my reluctant choice, up the Gallatin Canyon to Yellowstone and the towns of southeast Idaho, one of which contained property with my name on the deed. We joined the stream of traffic heading south, the Gallatin River alongside and usually much below the roadway, a dashing high-gradient river with anglers in reflective stillness at the edges of its pools, and bright rafts full of delighted tourists in flotation jackets and crash helmets sweeping through its white water. Gradually, the mountains pressed in on all this humanity, and I found myself behind a long line of cars trailing a cattle truck at well below the speed limit. This combination of cumbersome commercial traffic and impatient private cars was a lethal mixture that kept our canyon in the papers, as it regularly spat out corpses. In my rearview mirror, I could see a line behind me that was just as long as the one ahead, stretching back, thinning, and vanishing around a green bend. There was no passing lane for several miles. A single amorous elk could have turned us all into twisted, smoking metal. “You might have been right,” Louise said. “It doesn't look good.” She almost certainly had better things to do. But, looking down the line of cars, I felt my blood pressure rising. Her hands rested quietly in her lap. I couldn't possibly have rivalled such serenity. “How do you plan to anger this guy in Rigby?” she asked. “I'm going to try haughtiness. If I suggest that he bought the dealership cheap, he might tell me to keep the damn thing. The Atlanta guy just wants to start somewhere. All these people have a sort of parlay mentality and they need to get on the playing field before they can start running it up. I'm a trader. It all happens for me in the transition. The moment of liquidation is the essence of capitalism.” “What about the man in Rigby?” “He's an end user. He wants to keep it.” I reflected on the pathos of ownership and the way it could bog you down. “You should be in my world,” Louise said. “According to the law, water has no reality except its use. In Montana, water isn't even wet. Every time some misguided soul suggests that fish need it, it ends up in the state supreme court.” Birds were fleeing the advance of automobiles. I was elsewhere, trying to imagine my buyer, red-faced, storming out of the closing. I'd offer to let bygones be bygones, I'd take him to dinner, I'd throw a steak into him, for Christ's sake. In the end, he'd be glad he wasn't stuck with the lot. Traffic headed toward us, far down the road. We were all packed together to make sure no one tried to pass. The rules had to be enforced. Occasionally, someone drifted out for a better look, but not far enough that someone else could close his space and possibly seal his fate. This trip had its risks. I had only recently admitted to myself that I would like to make more of my situation with Louise than currently existed. Though ours was hardly a chaste relationship, real intimacy was relatively scarce. People in relationships nowadays seemed to retain their secrets like bank deposits—they always set some aside, in case they might need them to spend on someone new. I found it unpleasant to think that Louise could be withholding anything. But I thought I was more presentable than I had been. When Louise and I first met, I was just coming off two and a half years of peddling satellite dishes in towns where a couple of dogs doing the wild thing in the middle of the road amounted to the high point of a year, and the highest-grossing business was a methamphetamine tent camp out in the sagebrush. Now I had caught the upswing in our local economy—cars, storage, tool rental, and mortgage-discounting. I had a pretty home, debt-free, out on Sourdough. I owned a few things. I could be O.K. I asked Louise what she thought of the new prosperity around us. She said, wearily, “I'm not sure it's such a good thing, living in a boomtown. It's basically a high-end carny atmosphere.” We were just passing Storm Castle and Garnet Mountain. When I glanced in the mirror, I saw a low red car with a scoop in its hood pull out to pass. I must have reacted somehow, because Louise asked me if I would like her to drive. “No, that's fine. Things are getting a bit lively back there.” “Drive defensively.” “Not much choice, is there?” I had been mentally rehearsing the closing in Rigby, and I wasn't getting anywhere. I had this sort of absurd picture of myself strutting into the meeting. I tried again to picture the buyer looking seriously annoyed, but I'd met him before and he seemed pretty levelheaded. I suspected I'd have to be really outlandish to get a rise out of him. He was a fourth-generation resident of Rigby, so I could always urge him to get to know his neighbors, I decided. Or, since he had come up through the service department, I could try emphasizing the need to study how the cars actually ran. I'd use hand signals to fend off objections. I felt more secure. Some elk had wandered into the parking lot at Buck's T4 and were grazing indifferently as people pulled off the highway to admire them. I don't know if it was the great unmarred blue sky overhead or the balsamic zephyr that poured down the mountainside, but I found myself momentarily buoyed by all this idleness, people out of their cars. I am always encouraged when I see animals doing something other than running for their lives. In any case, the stream of traffic ahead of us had been much reduced by the pedestrian rubbernecking. “My husband lived here one winter,” Louise said. “He sold his pharmacy after we divorced, not that he had to, and set out to change his life. He became a mountain man, wore buckskin clothes. He tried living off the land one day a week, with the idea that he would build up. But then he just stuck with one day a week—he'd shoot a rabbit or something, more of a diet, really. He's a real-estate agent now, at Big Sky. I think he's doing well. At least he's quit killing rabbits.” “Remarried?” “Yes.” As soon as we hit the open country around West Yellowstone, Louise called her office. When her secretary put her on hold, Louise covered the mouthpiece and said, “He married a super gal. Minnesota, I think. She should be good for Bob, and he's not easy. Bob's from the South. For men, it's a full-time job being Southern. It just wears them out. It wore me out, too. I developed doubtful behaviors. I pulled out my eyelashes, and ate twenty-eight hundred dollars' worth of macadamia nuts.” Her secretary came back on the line, and Louise began editing her schedule with impressive precision, mouthing the word “sorry” to me when the conversation dragged on. I began musing about my capacity to live successfully with someone as competent as Louise. There was no implied hierarchy of status between us, but I wondered if, in the long run, something would have to give. West Yellowstone seemed entirely given over to the well-being of the snowmobile, and the billboards dedicated to it were anomalous on a sunny day like today. By winter, schoolchildren would be petitioning futilely to control the noise at night so that they could do their schoolwork, and the town would turn a blind eye as a cloud of smoke arose to gas residents, travellers, and park rangers alike. It seemed incredible to me that recreation could acquire this level of social momentum, that it could be seen as an inalienable right. We came down Targhee Pass and into Idaho, into a wasteland of spindly pines that had replaced the former forest, and Louise gave voice to the thoughts she'd been having for the past few miles. “Why don't you just let this deal close? You really have no guarantees from the man from Atlanta. And there's a good-faith issue here, too, I think.” “A lawyerly notation.” “So be it, but it's true. Are you trying to get every last cent out of this sale?” “That's second. The first priority is to be done with it. It was meant to be a passive investment, and it has turned out not to be. I get twenty calls a day from the dealership, most with questions I can't answer. It's turning me into a giant bullshit machine.” “No investments are really passive.” “Mutual funds are close.” “That's why they don't pay.” “Some of them pay, or they would cease to exist.” “You make a poor libertarian, my darling. You sound like that little puke David Stockman.” “Stockman was right about everything. Reagan just didn't have the guts to take his advice.” “Reagan. Give me a break.” I didn't mind equal billing in a relationship, but I did dread the idea of parties speaking strictly from their entitlements across a chasm. Inevitably, sex would make chaos of much of this, but you couldn't, despite Benjamin Franklin's suggestion, “use venery” as a management tool. Louise adjusted her seat back and folded her arms, gazing at the sunny side of the road. The light through the windshield accentuated the shape of her face, now in repose. I found her beautiful. I adored her when she was a noun and was alarmed when she was a verb, which was usually the case. I understood that this was not the best thing I could say about myself. When her hand drifted over to my leg, I hardly knew what to do with this reference to the other life we led. I knew that it was an excellent thing to be reminded of how inconsequential my worldly concerns were, but one warm hand, rested casually, and my interest travelled to the basics of the species. Ashton, St. Anthony, Sugar City: Mormon hamlets, small farms, and the furious reordering of watersheds into industrial canals. Irrigation haze hung over the valley of the Snake, and the skies were less bright than they had been just a few miles back, in Montana. Many locals had been killed when the Teton Dam burst, and despite that they wanted to build it again: the relationship to water here was like a war, and in war lives are lost. These were the folk to whom I'd sold many a plain car; ostentation was thoroughly unacceptable hereabouts. The four-door sedan with a six-cylinder engine was the desired item, an identical one with a hundred and fifty thousand miles on it generally taken in trade at zero value, thanks to the manipulation of rebates against the manufacturer's suggested retail. Appearances were foremost, and the salesman who could leave a customer's smugness undisturbed flourished in this atmosphere. I had two of them, potato-fattened, bland opportunists with nine kids between them. They were the asset I was selling; the rest was little more than bricks and mortar. We pressed on toward Rexburg, and amid the turnoffs for Wilford, Newdale, Hibbard, and Moody the only thing that had any flavor was Hog Hollow Road, which was a shortcut to France—not the one in Europe but the one just a hop, skip, and a jump south of Squirrel, Idaho. There were license-plate holders with my name on them in Squirrel, and I was oddly vain about that. “Sure seems lonesome around here,” Louise said. “Oh, boy.” “The houses are like little forts.” “The winters are hard.” But it was less that the small neat dwellings around us appeared defensive than that they seemed to be trying to avoid attracting the wrath of some inattentive god. “It looks like government housing for Eskimos. They just sit inside waiting for a whale, or something.” This banter had the peculiar effect of making me want to cleave to Louise, and desperately, too—to build a warm new civilization, possibly in a foolish house with turrets. The road stretched before me like an arrow. There was only enough of it left before Rigby for me to say, perhaps involuntarily, “I wonder if we shouldn't just get married.” Louise quickly looked away. Her silence conferred a certain seriousness on my question. But there was Rigby, and, in the parlance of all who have extracted funds from locals, Rigby had been good to me. Main Street was lined with ambitious and beautiful stone buildings, old for this part of the world. Their second and third floors were now affordable housing, and their street levels were occupied by businesses hanging on by their fingernails. You could still detect the hopes of the dead, their dreams, even, though it seemed to be only a matter of time before the wind carried them away, once and for all. I drove past the car lot at 200 East Fremont without comment and—considering the amount of difficulty it had caused me in the years before I got it stabilized and began to enjoy its very modest yields—without much feeling. I remembered the day, sometime earlier, when I had tried to help park the cars in the front row and got everything so crooked that the salesmen, not concealing their contempt, had to do it all over again. The title company where we were heading was on the same street, and it was a livelier place, from the row of perky evergreens out front to the merry receptionist who greeted us, a handsome young woman, probably a farm girl only moments before, enjoying the clothes, makeup, and perquisites of the new world that her firm was helping to build. We were shown into a spacious conference room with a long table and chairs, freshly sharpened pencils, and crisp notepads bearing the company letterhead. “Shall I stay?” Louise asked, the first thing she'd said since my earlier inadvertent remark, which I intuited had not been altogether rejected. “Please,” I said, gesturing toward a chair next to the one I meant to take. At that moment, the escrow agent entered and, standing very close to us, introduced himself as Brent Colby. Then he went to the far end of the table, where he spread his documents around in an orderly fan. Colby was around fifty, with iron-gray hair and a deeply lined face. He wore pressed jeans, a brilliant-white snap-button shirt, cowboy boots, and a belt buckle with a steer head on it. He had thick, hairy hands and a gleaming wedding band. Just as he raised his left wrist to check his watch, the door opened and Oren Johnson, the buyer, entered. He went straight to Louise and, taking her hand in both of his, introduced himself. It occurred to me that, in trying to be suave, Oren Johnson had revealed himself to be a clodhopper, but I was probably just experiencing the mild hostility that emanates from every sale of property. Oren wore a suit, though it suggested less a costume for business than one for church. He had a gold tooth and a cautious pompadour. He, too, bore an investment-grade wedding band, and I noted that there was plenty of room in his black-laced shoes for his toes. He turned and said that it was good to see me again after so long. The time had come for me to go into my act. With grotesque hauteur, I said that I didn't realize we had ever met. This was work. Oren Johnson bustled with inchoate energy; he was the kind of small-town leader who sets an example by silently getting things done. He suggested this just by arranging his pencils and notepad and repositioning his chair with rough precision. Locking eyes with me, he stated that he was a man of his word. I didn't know what he was getting at, but took it to mean that the formalities of a closing were superfluous to the old-time handshake with which Oren Johnson customarily did business. I smiled and quizzically cocked my head as if to say that the newfangled arrangements with well-attested documents promptly conveyed to the courthouse suited me just fine, that deals made on handshakes were strictly for the pious or the picturesque. My message was clear enough that Louise shifted uncomfortably in her chair, and Brent Colby knocked his documents edgewise on the desk to align them. As far as Oren Johnson was concerned, I was beginning to feel that anyone who strayed from the basic patterns of farm life to sell cars bore watching. Like a Method actor, I already believed my part. “You're an awfully lucky man, Oren Johnson,” I said to him, leaning back in my chair. I could see Louise openmouthed two seats away from Brent Colby, and observing myself through her eyes gave me a sudden burst of panic. “Oh?” Oren Johnson said. “How's that?” “How's that?” I did a precise job of replicating his inflection. “I am permitting you to purchase my car lot. You've seen the books: how often does a man get a shot at a business where all the work's been done for him?” Brent Colby was doing an incomplete job of concealing his distaste; he was enough of a tinhorn to clear his throat theatrically. But Oren Johnson treated this as a colossal interruption and cast a firm glance his way. “It doesn't look all that automatic to me,” he said. “Aw, hell, you're just going to coin it. Pull the lever and relax!” “What about the illegal oil dump? I wish I had a nickel for every crankcaseful that went into that hole. Then I wouldn't worry about what's going to happen when the D.E.Q. lowers the boom.” “Maybe you ought to ride your potato harvester another year or two, if you're so risk-averse. Cars are the future. They're not for everybody.” Oren Johnson's face reddened. He pushed his pencils and notepad almost out of reach in the middle of the conference table. He contemplated these supplies a moment before raising his eyes to mine. “I suppose you could put this car lot where the sun don't shine, if that suits you.” Johnson having taken a stand, I immediately felt unsure that I even had another buyer. Had I ever acknowledged how much I longed to get rid of this business and put an end to all those embarrassing phone calls? I wanted to hand the moment off to someone else while I collected my thoughts, but as I looked around the room I found no one who was interested in rescuing me—least of all Louise, who had raised one eyebrow at the vast peculiarity of my performance. Suddenly, I was desperate to keep the deal from falling apart. I gave my head a little twist to free my neck from the constrictions of my collar. I performed this gesture too vigorously, and I had the feeling that it might seem like the first movement of some sort of dance filled with sensual flourishes and bordering on the moronic. I had lost my grip. “Oren,” I said, and the familiarity seemed inappropriate. “I was attached to this little enterprise. I wanted to be sure you valued it.” The deal closed, and I had my check. I tipped back in my chair to think of a few commemorative words for the new owner, but the two men left the room without giving me the chance to speak. I shrugged at Louise, and she, too, rose to go, pausing a moment beneath an enormous Kodachrome of a bugling elk. I was aware of her distance, and I sensed that my waffling hadn't gone over particularly well. I concluded that at no time in the future would I act out a role to accomplish anything. This decision quickly evaporated with the realization that that is practically all we do in life. Comedy failed, too. When I told Louise that I had been within an inch of opening a can of whup-ass on the buyer, I barely got a smile. There's nothing more desolating than having a phrase like that die on your lips. It was dark when we got back to Targhee Pass. Leaving town, we passed the Beehive assisted-living facility and the Riot Zone, a “family fun park.” Most of the citizens we spotted there seemed unlikely rioters. I drove past a huge neon steak, its blue T-bone flashing above a restaurant that was closed and dark. There were deer on the road, and once, as we passed through a murky section of forest, we saw the pale faces of children waiting to cross. “What are they doing out at this hour?” “I don't know,” Louise said. I made good time on the pine flats north of the Snowmobile Capital of the World, and I wondered what it would be like to live in a town that was the world capital of a mechanical gadget. In Rigby, we had seen a homely museum dedicated to Philo T. Farnsworth, the inventor of television, which featured displays of Farnsworth's funky assemblages of tubes and wire and, apparently, coat hangers—stuff his wife was probably always attempting to throw out, a goal Louise supported. “Too bad Mama Farnsworth didn't take all that stuff to the dump,” she said. We had the highway to ourselves, and clouds of stars seemed to rise up from the wilderness, lighting the treetops in a cool fire. Slowly, the canyon closed in around us, and we entered its flowing, dark space. The idyll ended just past the ranger station at Black Butte, when a car pulled in behind us abruptly enough that I checked my speed to see if I was violating the limit, but I wasn't. Then the car was very close, and the driver shifted his lights to a high beam so intense that I could see our shadows on the dashboard, my knuckles on the steering wheel glaringly white. I was nearly blinded by my own mirrors, which I hastily adjusted. I said, “What's with this guy?” “Just let him pass.” “I don't know that he wants to.” I softened my pressure on the gas pedal. I thought that by easing my already moderate speed I would politely suggest that he might go by me. I even hugged the shoulder, but he remained glued to our bumper. There was something about this that reminded me strongly of my feeling of failure back in Rigby, but I was unable to put my finger on it. Maybe it was the hot light of liquidation, in the glare of which all motives seem laid bare. I slowed down even more without managing to persuade my tormentor to pass. “Jesus,” Louise said. “Pull over.” In her accent, it came out as “pull ovah.” I moved off to the side of the road slowly and predictably, but although I had stopped, the incandescent globes persisted in our rearview mirror. “This is very strange,” Louise said. “Shall I go back and speak to him?” After considering for a moment, she said, “No.” “Why?” “Because this is not normal.” I put the car in gear again and pulled back onto the highway. The last reasonable thought I had was that I would proceed to Bozeman as though nothing were going on, and once I was back in civilization my tormentor's behavior would be visible to all, and I could, if necessary, simply drive to the police station with him in tow. Our blinding, syncopated journey continued another mile before we reached a sweeping eastward bend, closely guarded by the canyon walls. I knew that just beyond the bend there was a scenic pulloff, and that the approaching curve was acute enough for a small lead to put me out of sight. Whether or not this was plausible, I had no idea: I was exhilarated to be taking a firm hand in my own affairs. And a firm foot! As we entered the narrows, I pinned the accelerator, and we shot into the dark. Louise grabbed the front edges of her seat and stared at the road twisting in front of us. She emitted something like a moan, which I had heard before in a very different context. Halfway around the curve, my tormentor vanished behind us, and although my car seemed only marginally under control, the absence of blinding light was a relief as we fled into darkness. When we emerged and the road straightened, I turned off my lights. I was going so fast I felt light-headed, but the road was visible under the stars, and I was able to brake hard and drop down into the scenic turnoff. Seconds later, our new friend shot past, lights blazing into nowhere. He was clearly determined to catch us: his progress up the canyon was rapid and increasingly erratic. We watched in fascination until the lights suddenly jerked sideways, shining in white cones across the river, turned downward, then disappeared. I heard Louise say, in a tone of reasonable observation, “He went in.” I had an urgent feeling that took a long time to turn into words. “Did I do that?” She shook her head, and I pulled out onto the highway, my own headlights on once more. I drove in an odd, measured way, as if bound for an undesired destination, pulled along by something outside myself, thinking: Liquidation. We could see where he'd gone through the guardrail. We pulled over and got out. Any hope we might have had for the driver—and we shall be a long time determining if we had any—was gone the minute we looked down from the riverbank. The car was submerged, its lights still burning freakishly, illuminating a bulge of crystalline water, a boulder in the exuberance of a mountain watershed. Presently, the lights sank into blackness, and only the silver sheen of river in starlight remained. Louise cried, “I wish I could feel something!” And when I reached to comfort her she shoved me away. I had no choice but to climb back up to the roadway. After that, I could encounter Louise only by telephone. I told her that he'd had a record as long as your arm. “It's not enough!” she said. I called later to say that he was of German and Italian extraction. That proved equally unsatisfactory, and when I called to inform her that he hailed from Wisconsin she just hung up on me, this time for good. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Without Blood	Without Blood The New Yorker, December 23, 2002 P. 128 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a political killing in postwar Italy, and an adult encounter between the daughter (and sister) of the two victims, and one of the killers... The father worked in a fascist interrogation facility, and had the nickname of the Hyena... Describes the gun battle, and how the girl, Nina, is concealed beneath a trap door. The youngest gunman finds her, and leaves her there, after which the house is burned down around her... She escapes and is picked up several days later by an associate of the dead father, who raises her in anonymity... Tells how she approaches the man who spared her life years later when he is working as a newsvendor, tells him of her life and makes love with him in a hotel room... View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Jolene: A Life	Jolene: A Life The New Yorker, December 23, 2002 P. 102 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about Jolene, a teen-ager who escapes her abusive home to marry at fifteen, is seduced by her husband’s middle-aged uncle, which causes her young husband to suicide, and sent the uncle to prison as a statutory rapist. She herself was sent to a juvenile loony bin, and, after learning she had a talent for drawing, escaped with the help of a female guard who seduced her, abandoned the guard immediately and fled the South for Phoenix, where she got a job at the Dairy Queen as a roller-skating waitress before falling in with a drug-dealing tattoo artist... When his other wife showed up at the shop with a baby, and the tattoo artist drove off with her to settle her, Jolene smashed up the shop, and fled to Las Vegas where she became the moll of a gray-haired man of some girth named Sal Fontaine, who was subsequently described as dying of a heart attack after an appointment with two gentlemen that he did not want her to meet... She moved to Tulsa, where she worked for a caterer, and met Brad G. Benton, a wealthy local scion, who beat her after their child was born and whose family was able to convince local law enforcement that she had kidnapped the child when she fled to a shelter... These days she has a job in West Hollywood inking for a small comic book company. Friends tell her she could act in movies because she may be twenty-five by she looks a lot younger...She has a daydream that her son sees her up on the screen one day. And when she takes herself back to Tulsa in her Rolls-Royce Silver Cloud he answers the door and rushes into the arms of his movie-star mother. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Ant of the Self	The Ant of the Self The New Yorker, November 25, 2002 P. 86 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a young man who borrows his mother’s car, bails his father out of jail in the Indiana area with money he won from a debate contest, and is roped into helping him take parrots from an ex-girlfriend’s house to sell in Washington’s Metro during the Million Man March in 1995... Tells about the scene at the march and how neither of them sells any of the birds... His father gets him drunk, then beats him and runs off with the car... The narrator waits in a railway station to call his mother for money for a ticket back to Louisville, Kentucky... View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Last Night	Walter Such was a translator. He liked to write with a green fountain pen that he had a habit of raising in the air slightly after each sentence, almost as if his hand were a mechanical device. He could recite lines of Blok in Russian and then give Rilke’s translation of them in German, pointing out their beauty. He was a sociable but also sometimes prickly man, who stuttered a little at first and who lived with his wife in a manner they liked. But Marit, his wife, was ill. He was sitting with Susanna, a family friend. Finally, they heard Marit on the stairs, and she came into the room. She was wearing a red silk dress in which she had always been seductive, with her loose breasts and sleek, dark hair. In the white wire baskets in her closet were stacks of folded clothes, underwear, sport things, nightgowns, the shoes jumbled beneath on the floor. Things she would never again need. Also jewelry, bracelets and necklaces, and a lacquer box with all her rings. She had looked through the lacquer box at length and picked several. She didn’t want her fingers, bony now, to be naked. —You look re-really nice, her husband said. —I feel as if it’s my first date or something. Are you having a drink? —Yes. —I think I’ll have one. Lots of ice, she said. She sat down. —I have no energy, she said, that’s the most terrible part. It’s gone. It doesn’t come back. I don’t even like to get up and walk around. —It must be very difficult, Susanna said. —You have no idea. Walter came back with the drink and handed it to his wife. —Well, happy days, she said. Then, as if suddenly remembering, she smiled at them. A frightening smile. It seemed to mean just the opposite. It was the night they had decided would be the one. On a saucer in the refrigerator, the syringe lay. Her doctor had supplied the contents. But a farewell dinner first, if she were able. It should not be just the two of them, Marit had said. Her instinct. They had asked Susanna rather than someone closer and grief-filled, Marit’s sister, for example, with whom she was not on good terms, anyway, or older friends. Susanna was younger. She had a wide face and high, pure forehead. She looked like the daughter of a professor or banker, slightly errant. Dirty girl, one of their friends had commented about her, with a degree of admiration. Susanna, sitting in a short skirt, was already a little nervous. It was hard to pretend it would be just an ordinary dinner. It would be hard to be offhanded and herself. She had come as dusk was falling. The house with its lighted windows—every room seemed to be lit—had stood out from all the others like a place in which something festive was happening. Marit gazed at things in the room, the photographs with their silver frames, the lamps, the large books on Surrealism, landscape design, or country houses that she had always meant to sit down with and read, the chairs, even the rug with its beautiful faded color. She looked at it all as if she were somehow noting it, when in fact it all meant nothing. Susanna’s long hair and freshness meant something, though she was not sure what. Certain memories are what you long to take with you, she thought, memories before Walter, from when she was a girl. Home, not this one but the original one with her childhood bed, the window on the landing out of which she had watched the swirling storms of long-ago winters, her father bending over her to say good night, the lamplight in which her mother was holding out a wrist, trying to fasten a bracelet. That home. The rest was less dense. The rest was a long novel so like your life; you were going through it without thinking and then one morning it ended: there were bloodstains. —I’ve had a lot of these, Marit reflected. —The drink? Susanna asked. —Yes. —Over the years, you mean. —Yes, over the years. What time is it getting to be? —Quarter to eight, her husband said. —Shall we go? —Whenever you like, he said. No need to hurry. —I don’t want to hurry. She had, in fact, little desire to go. It was one step closer. —What time is the reservation? she asked. —Any time we like. —Let’s go, then. It was in the uterus and had travelled from there to the lungs. In the end, she had accepted it. Above the square neckline of her dress the skin, pallid, seemed to emanate a darkness. She no longer resembled herself. What she had been was gone; it had been taken from her. The change was fearful, especially in her face. She had a face now that was for the afterlife and those she would meet there. It was hard for Walter to remember how she had once been. She was almost a different woman from the one to whom he had made a solemn promise to help when the time came. Susanna sat in the back as they drove. The roads were empty. They passed houses showing a shifting, bluish light downstairs. Marit sat silent. She felt sadness but also a kind of confusion. She was trying to imagine all of it tomorrow, without her being here to see it. She could not imagine it. It was difficult to think the world would still be there. At the hotel, they waited near the bar, which was noisy. Men without jackets, girls talking or laughing loudly, girls who knew nothing. On the walls were large French posters, old lithographs, in darkened frames. —I don’t recognize anyone, Marit commented. Luckily, she added. Walter had seen a talkative couple they knew, the Apthalls. —Don’t look, he said. They haven’t seen us. I’ll get a table in the other room. —Did they see us? Marit asked as they were seated. I don’t feel like talking to anyone. —We’re all right, he said. The waiter was wearing a white apron and black bow tie. He handed them the menu and a wine list. —Can I get you something to drink? —Yes, definitely, Walter said. He was looking at the list, on which the prices were in roughly ascending order. There was a Cheval-Blanc for five hundred and seventy-five dollars. This Cheval-Blanc, do you have this? —The 1989? the waiter asked. —Bring us a bottle of that. —What is Cheval-Blanc? Is it a white? Susanna asked when the waiter had gone. —No, it’s a red, Walter said. —You know, it was very nice of you to join us tonight, Marit said to Susanna. It’s quite a special evening. —Yes. —We don’t usually order wine this good, she explained. The two of them had often eaten here, usually near the bar, with its gleaming rows of bottles. They had never ordered wine that cost more than thirty-five dollars. How was she feeling, Walter asked while they waited. Was she feeling O.K.? —I don’t know how to express how I’m feeling. I’m taking morphine, Marit told Susanna. It’s doing the job, but . . . she stopped. There are a lot of things that shouldn’t happen to you, she said. Dinner was quiet. It was difficult to talk casually. They had two bottles of the wine, however. He would never drink this well again, Walter could not help thinking. He poured the last of the second bottle into Susanna’s glass. —No, you should drink it, she said. It’s really for you. —He’s had enough, Marit said. It was good, though, wasn’t it? —Fabulously good. —Makes you realize there are things . . . oh, I don’t know, various things. It would be nice to have always drunk it. She said it in a way that was enormously touching. They were all feeling better. They sat for a while and finally made their way out. The bar was still noisy. Marit stared out the window as they drove. She was tired. They were going home now. The wind was moving in the tops of the shadowy trees. In the night sky there were brilliant blue clouds, shining as if in daylight. —It’s very beautiful tonight, isn’t it? Marit said. I’m struck by that. Am I mistaken? —No. Walter cleared his throat. It is beautiful. —Have you noticed it? she asked Susanna. I’m sure you have. How old are you? I forget. —Twenty-nine. —Twenty-nine, Marit said. She was silent for a few moments. We never had children, she said. Do you wish you had children? —Oh, sometimes, I suppose. I haven’t thought about it too much. It’s one of those things you have to be married to really think about. —You’ll be married. —Yes, perhaps. —You could be married in a minute, Marit said. She was tired when they reached the house. They sat together in the living room as if they had come from a big party but were not quite ready for bed. Walter was thinking of what lay ahead, the light that would come on in the refrigerator when the door was opened. The needle of the syringe was sharp, the stainless-steel point cut at an angle and like a razor. He was going to have to insert it into her vein. He tried not to dwell on it. He would manage somehow. He was becoming more and more nervous. —I remember my mother, Marit said. She wanted to tell me things at the end, things that had happened when I was young. Rae Mahin had gone to bed with Teddy Hudner. Anne Herring had, too. They were married women. Teddy Hudner wasn’t married. He worked in advertising and was always playing golf. My mother went on like that, who slept with whom. That’s what she wanted to tell me, finally. Of course, at the time, Rae Mahin was really something. Then Marit said, I think I’ll go upstairs. She stood up. I’m all right, she told her husband. Don’t come up just yet. Good night, Susanna. When there were just the two of them, Susanna said, I have to go. —No, don’t. Please don’t go. Stay here. She shook her head. I can’t, she said. —Please, you have to. I’m going to go upstairs in a little while, but when I come down I can’t be alone. Please. There was silence. —Susanna. They sat without speaking. —I know you’ve thought all this out, she said. —Yes, absolutely. After a few minutes, Walter looked at his watch; he began to say something but then did not. A little later, he looked at it again, then left the room. The kitchen was in the shape of an L, old-fashioned and unplanned, with a white enamel sink and wooden cabinets painted many times. In the summers they had made preserves here when boxes of strawberries were sold at the stairway going down to the train platform in the city, unforgettable strawberries, their fragrance like perfume. There were still some jars. He went to the refrigerator and opened the door. There it was, the small etched lines on the side. There were ten ccs. He tried to think of a way not to go on. If he dropped the syringe, broke it somehow, and said his hand had been shaking . . . He took the saucer and covered it with a dish towel. It was worse that way. He put it down and picked up the syringe, holding it in various ways—finally, almost concealed against his leg. He felt light as a sheet of paper, devoid of strength. Marit had prepared herself. She had made up her eyes and put on an ivory satin nightgown, low in back. It was the gown she would be wearing in the next world. She had made an effort to believe in an afterworld. The crossing was by boat, something the ancients knew with certainty. Over her collarbones lay strands of a silver necklace. She was weary. The wine had had an effect, but she was not calm. In the doorway, Walter stood, as if waiting for permission. She looked at him without speaking. He had it in his hand, she saw. Her heart skidded nervously, but she was determined not to show it. —Well, darling, she said. He tried to reply. She had on fresh lipstick, he saw; her mouth looked dark. There were some photographs she had arranged around her on the bed. —Come in. —No, I’ll be back, he managed to say. He hurried downstairs. He was going to fail; he had to have a drink. The living room was empty. Susanna had gone. He had never felt more completely alone. He went into the kitchen and poured some vodka, odorless and clear, into a glass and quickly drank it. He went slowly upstairs again and sat on the bed near his wife. The vodka was making him drunk. He felt unlike himself. —Walter, she said. —Yes? —This is the right thing. She reached to take his hand. Somehow it frightened him, as if it might mean an appeal to come with her. —You know, she said evenly, I’ve loved you as much as I’ve ever loved anyone in the world—I’m sounding maudlin, I know. —Ah, Marit! he cried. —Did you love me? His stomach was churning in despair. —Yes, he said. Yes! —Take care of yourself. —Yes. He was in good health, as it happened, a little heavier than he might have been, but nevertheless . . . His roundish, scholarly stomach was covered with a layer of soft, dark hair, his hands and nails well cared for. She leaned forward and embraced him. She kissed him. For a moment, she was not afraid. She would live again, be young again as she once had been. She held out her arm. On the inside, two veins the color of verdigris were visible. He began to press to make them rise. Her head was turned away. —Do you remember, she said to him, when I was working at Bates and we met that first time? I knew right away. The needle was wavering as he tried to position it. —I was lucky, she said. I was very lucky. He was barely breathing. He waited, but she did not say anything more. Hardly believing what he was doing, he pushed the needle in—it was effortless—and slowly injected the contents. He heard her sigh. Her eyes were closed as she lay back. Her face was peaceful. She had embarked. My God, he thought, my God. He had known her when she was in her twenties, long-legged and innocent. Now he had slipped her, as in a burial at sea, beneath the flow of time. Her hand was still warm. He took it and held it to his lips. He pulled the bedspread up to cover her legs. The house was incredibly quiet. It had fallen into silence, the silence of a fatal act. He could not hear the wind. He went slowly downstairs. A sense of relief came over him, enormous relief and sadness. Outside, the monumental blue clouds filled the night. He stood for a few minutes and then saw, sitting in her car, motionless, Susanna. She rolled down the window as he approached. —You didn’t go, he said. —I couldn’t stay in there. —It’s over, he said. Come in. I’m going to get a drink. She stood in the kitchen with him, her arms folded, a hand on each elbow. —It wasn’t terrible, he said. It’s just that I feel . . . I don’t know. They drank standing there. —Did she really want me to come? Susanna said. —Darling, she suggested it. She didn’t know a thing. —I wonder. —Believe me. Nothing. She put down her drink. —No, drink it, he said. It’ll help. —I feel funny. —Funny? You’re not feeling sick? —I don’t know. —Don’t be sick. Here, come with me. Wait, I’ll get you some water. She was concentrating on breathing evenly. —You’d better lie down for a bit, he said. —No, I’m all right. —Come. He led her, in her short skirt and blouse, to a room to one side of the front door and made her sit on the bed. She was taking slow breaths. —Susanna. —Yes. —I need you. She more or less heard him. Her head was thrown back like that of a woman longing for God. —I shouldn’t have drunk so much, she murmured. He began to unbutton her blouse. —No, she said, trying to rebutton it. He was unfastening her brassiere. Her gorgeous breasts emerged. He could not take his eyes from them. He kissed them passionately. She felt herself moved to the side as he pulled down the cover of the white sheets. She tried to speak again, but he put his hand over her mouth and pushed her down. He devoured her, shuddering as if in fright at the end and holding her to him tightly. They fell into a profound sleep. In earliest morning, the light was clear and intensely bright. The house, standing in its path, became even whiter. It stood out from its neighbors, more pure and serene. The shadow of a tall elm beside it was traced on it as finely as if drawn by a pencil. The pale curtains hung unmoving. Nothing stirred within. In back was the wide lawn across which Susanna had been idly strolling as part of a garden tour on the day he had first seen her, shapely and tall. It was a vision he had not been able to erase, though the rest had started later, when she came to redo the garden with Marit. They sat at the table drinking coffee. They were complicit, not long risen, and not regarding one another too closely. Walter was admiring her, however. Without makeup she was even more appealing. Her long hair was not combed. She seemed very approachable. There were calls that would have to be made, but he was not thinking of them. It was still too early. He was thinking past this day. Mornings to come. At first he hardly heard the sound behind him. It was a footstep and then, slowly, another—Susanna turned white—as Marit came unsteadily down the stairs. The makeup on her face was stale, and her dark lipstick showed fissures. He stared in disbelief. —Something went wrong, she said. —Are you all right? he asked foolishly. —No, you must have done it wrong. —Oh, God, Walter murmured. She sat weakly on the bottom step. She did not seem to notice Susanna. —I thought you were going to help me, she said, and began to cry. —I can’t understand it, he said. —It’s all wrong, Marit was repeating. Then, to Susanna, You’re still here? —I was just leaving, Susanna said. —I don’t understand, Walter said again. —I have to do it all over, Marit sobbed. —I’m sorry, he said. I’m so sorry. He could think of nothing more to say. Susanna had gone to get her clothes. She left by the front door. That was how she and Walter came to part, upon being discovered by his wife. They met two or three times afterward, at his insistence, but to no avail. Whatever holds people together was gone. She told him she could not help it. That was just the way it was. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Only a Thing	You could compare a certain kind of love affair to a car wreck. You don't expect it, and yet when it does happen it seems somehow inevitable—even overdue. There is the status quo, and then its interruption; a pattern, then variation. Julia had felt a crash coming ever since they had rented the brand-new Intrepid in Cancún. What was she doing riding around in a foreign country in what was, in Mexico, a foreign car, with someone other than her husband behind the wheel? Foreign, foreign, foreign. The car had only eighteen miles on it when they plowed into a wall. The wall, made of ugly cement block, was being repainted. An elderly Mexican man was slowly brushing over graffiti, tracing atop the foul Spanish as if he were writing it himself, unwriting it, in slow motion. Julia had noticed him before the crash, had thought in a brilliant lucid flash that having sex with a new man was like tracing graffiti in order to erase it: the same motions, the undoing in the doing. And then Martin had crashed the car into the wall. The painter guided Julia gently by the arm to a neat pile of rubble, painted white, no doubt by him, to resemble curbing. Of the totalled, steaming vehicle, he said, philosophically, his brush held like a torch, “Is only a thing.” “Gracias,” she said. Martin meanwhile stormed around, swearing in English, circling the crashed Intrepid as if to conjure up a repair. He wore his traveller's pants: the legs unzipped so that the slacks became shorts. Good for climbing volcanoes, visiting cathedrals, a fabric so light it would dry overnight, slung over a shower rod. Martin's legs were muscled, hairless because he cycled, red now because he was fair and had burned. “God damn,” he kept saying. The front right wheel had been completely sheared from what Julia believed was called the “axle.” That (possible) axle had scraped a deep gouge into the pavement of the street and the crumbling painted rocks beside it, just before the front fender had met the wall. The poor painter would now have to plaster as well. Bits of yellow and silver plastic from the headlight and fender glittered in the sunshine. Atop the wall pieces of glass sparkled, too, sharp and alluring—you wanted to touch them with a fingertip just to risk getting pricked. Martin: he had no title, in Julia's life. He also was married, so Julia was his mistress. But what was he? Master, Julia thought—only Barbara Eden in her bikini and groovy genie bottle could get away with that. Julia shivered giddily, relieved to be alive, recalling old sitcoms, sitting on terra firma in the hot Mexican sunshine. An overfilled bus slowed to admire the Americans' bad luck, and Julia observed herself as if from the crowded window, a bottle-blond woman dethroned, removed to the gutter in her goofy pedal pushers and daisy-topped flip-flops. “You neck?” the painter inquired, peering down at Julia as she massaged herself. It was whiplash, she supposed. Everything else seemed fine, toes wiggling in their rubber thongs, heart beating in its ribby cage, but her neck ached. Not fatally. The flow that had constituted her life had simply been diverted. She was interested in what would happen next, but the crash wasn't a tragedy, just a glitch. A wall had popped up in front of them, like a piece of toast, like a warning shot, like a love affair. That was all. It might have been the accident that made her dwell, that night, on the dead brother of her husband, Teddy. The brother had been only seventeen when he died, ten years before Julia and Teddy met. He was therefore a ghost to Julia, dead without her having known him, haunting her life nonetheless. Not unhelpfully, she thought. If Teddy hadn't lost his brother, he wouldn't be who he was, and Julia would never have met or fallen in love with him. This ghost, named Billy, accounted for Teddy's character, for choices he'd made, people he'd befriended, places he'd gone, the man he'd become. Billy had been Teddy's only brother. Good-hearted, bespectacled, asthmatic, conceivably homosexual Billy, whom Teddy had spent his young life educating and defending. On his behalf Teddy had mowed the lawn, punched the bullies, purchased beer, chauffeured, chided, counselled, consoled. Later, it was Teddy who'd supplied the cocaine and the prostitute, the tequila and the hotel room. Billy had probably died happy, Julia thought, having gone alone to the swimming pool, shed his clothes, left his eyeglasses on the tiled edge, and thrown himself into the illuminated blue water. This, too, had happened in Mexico—Tijuana, San Diego's dark twin, the news drifting up to the States on a Sunday afternoon. It was Teddy, too, who'd gone south by bus to recover the body, to bring it and the family station wagon back across the border. In the aftermath, he had collapsed into mourning. Wretched in a San Diego psych ward, he had waited for clarity while his friends finished college, married, finagled jobs, and became parents, fulfilling their contracts as adults. But Julia's future husband's dramatic undoing was followed by an equally impressive reassembly. By the time he stepped out of the bin and back into the world, restored, he had developed an unswerving internal compass, one that hovered perpetually at moral magnetic north. Unlike his friends, he had legitimately grown up. He and Julia had met soon after that, sharing classes as students in a public-health program. Once he had fixed his gaze on her, he never lifted it. Home in L.A., two weeks after Mexico, Julia waited for a cashier at Walgreens, a pack of cigarettes in one hand, a pregnancy test in the other. Such a dumb problem, she thought, unworthy of her, interesting nevertheless. The line was moving slowly, and a party waited for her back at her house. She'd pulled away from the hoopla without anyone's noticing. It was that kind of party—raucous, sodden, oblivious. The boys were safely asleep, each with an arm around the neck of a dog who wouldn't let any drunken degenerates defile them. The girl was happily turning pages as Teddy held forth at the grand piano, thoroughly in his element and three sheets to the wind. His friends—students, other professors, secretaries, the whole democratic entourage from the community college where he taught—stayed later than Julia's colleagues from Fidelity Pharmaceuticals, the few who'd put in polite appearances in expensive black clothing and then coolly slid away for their late dates, their real deals. Even if they'd stayed, Julia wouldn't have had fun; she frequently felt alone at parties, especially her own. All those people, and no one to talk to. Martin would have been that one, and not only wasn't he there, he never would be. The Walgreens cashier didn't blink at the purchases. She'd seen worse combinations, Julia told herself: Scotch and circus peanuts, condoms and electrical tape, diapers and kerosene, any number of pathetic binaries. Outside, beneath an awning, hung an unlit pay phone, one that Julia had used a few times to call Martin. But at his end of the country it was very late. Testing for pregnancy was as close to him as she was going to get tonight. As she left the parking lot, she had to brake abruptly. A group of high-school girls, all carrying musical instruments, had bounded unthinkingly into the crosswalk, laughing, swinging their flute and cornet cases, bonking one another in the rear, strutting their pretty young bodies in the light of colored neon on a balmy Friday night. In a few years, Julia's daughter would be their age, sixteen, seventeen. Billy the ghost had died at seventeen. Julia put her forehead to the steering wheel and suddenly wept. Trooper, her vehicle was named. Most of the time, Julia felt like a trouper, too, but not tonight. The sudden stop had reminded her of the crash in Cancún. “Is this safe?” she'd asked, joking, as they climbed into a replacement car from the rental agency—a Mirage. But Martin was not in any mood to make light of the accident. He wanted to analyze it, explain how it had happened, again and again. This meant that he had to turn his attention repeatedly from the road to Julia's face, to remove his hands from the wheel to punctuate, to show the distances between lanes. “Did you see anything in the road?” he demanded. This was the first time that Julia had seen him flummoxed. It didn't suit him. She was trying to adopt the attitude of the old Mexican painter: “Is only a thing.” Nobody killed, not even particularly hurt. Money was involved, but not much; Martin was nothing if not insured. Mostly it was his youthful masculine pride that was damaged, and his annoyance served only to remind Julia that her husband was a better man, milder, steadier during disaster. If she'd died, if she'd been seriously injured, how would it have been explained back home? How to account for the active aimless sperm still inside her? All these guilty problems, unkindnesses that might outlive her. And what pitiless irony, her husband sent once more to Mexico on a gruesome errand. “Cars should be named other things,” she told Martin brightly. “The Ford Spanky. Or Wanderlust, the Volkswagen van. A convertible Picaresque, with tail fins.” “And you would be targeting what demo group?” he asked, taking a curve too fast. “The whimsical,” she said, clutching the side door handle with her right hand, the shoulder belt over her breast with her left. “Somebody should throw more bones to the whimsical.” When she returned to her house, alive and ordinary, she got rid of any evidence of Martin's presence in her life—letters, tidbits, all of it, trash in a landfill somewhere now. Only the first office voicemail remained, secured these three years in its electronic vault, the combination encrypted in Julia's private set of lucky numbers. When she was lonely, when she wanted to be reminded of why she loved him, she revisited his message and the virgin urge he'd had to reach her. On and on he stumbled, a long and lovely pratfall. Martin's daughter played the flute, Julia remembered a few days later. That, too, could account for the crying at Walgreens. She had once heard the girl play, over the long-distance line, a thin sad song in the background at Martin's Manhattan apartment. It had sounded like a professional recording. Satie, that mope. Nothing had made the atmosphere of that apartment clearer to Julia, as she stood in a radiantly warm L.A. parking lot. Martin's sadness—taken up in the daughter's perfect lonely performance. His restlessness and duty struggled in the confinement of the vertical city while Julia's sprawled in the horizontal one. Strangers in strange cars rushing by, children playing sad songs on flutes, love in its inimitable, baffling shades. Her affair seemed both random and fated; perfectly scripted and half-baked. She wasn't pregnant. The next time she and Martin rendezvoused, two months later, they rented an Intrigue. “Why not a Dullsville?” Julia suggested in the rental lot of the Denver International Airport. She laid her head on Martin's shoulder. “Those auto execs think like us,” she said, meaning Fidelity Pharmaceuticals, its reps who understood the sexy significance of names. It was Julia who'd dreamed up the name Hydra for the miracle anti-inflammatory that also softened your stool, improved your mood, lowered your blood pressure, and didn't eat away your intestinal lining. “It sounds as pure as water,” Martin had said gleefully, “but means a riot of snakes!” For the remainder of Hydra's promising patented life, he and Julia would be able to meet at exotic locales all over the world, selling their many-headed product to millions of sufferers. The future of her affair felt secure, like money in the bank or a non-generic painkilling wonder drug. “Martin,” she'd said at the gate. She loved to say his name. He covered her ears with his hands, put his lips to the part in her hair, speaking her name into her skull. In the car, she couldn't look at him—he was too much to take in. She watched the landscape fly by, plains, plains, plains, then suddenly mountains, over to the west. “You mustn't hiss,” Martin warned as they merged onto the beltway. He owned no car in New York, so he did all of the driving, jerkily and too fast. In Julia's real life she and Teddy shared fifty-fifty. They shared the driving and they shared their money. Martin pinched pennies; left ten-per-cent tips. He'd grown up poor and never lost his fear of ending up that way again. It surprised Julia to learn of the financial arrangements that prevailed at his home, the arguments between him and his wife about who would pay for what aspect of their daughter's existence. The girl was being tutored in everything—languages, dance, religion, art, etiquette, test-taking—a life the likes of which Julia's daughter would never know. Using scissors and scraps, Julia's daughter made costumes for stuffed bunnies, sang country-and-Western songs at the top of her lungs, strung shiny beads on thread, gave loving names to the kitchen appliances. Julia's family was impossibly impromptu next to Martin's, lumpy, lacking manners and vigilance and sharp facial features. Three children were too many. Martin took the global position: negative population growth. One child for every two parents. When, five years earlier, Julia had announced her third pregnancy, she'd been met with a kind of slack-jawed wonder. Her friends and relatives had suddenly realized that she might never stop having babies. But Teddy adored his children; now that the youngest was in Montessori, he had started rallying for more. His calling, this fatherhood for which he'd been in training since the birth of his little brother, had come to claim him fully. Now in his care were not only children but students, that steady parade of need, as well as colleagues, neighbors, readers of his letters to the editor. When describing their life, his and Julia's, he habitually used the plural pronoun, but Julia didn't feel as though she played much of a role. She had carried the children and she had decorated the house, but Teddy was the load-bearing member. He stayed there steady as Atlas while Julia flew away. Her salary was triple his, which was how she justified her transient relationship with her home and children, her business travel. When they cried at her departure, she promised gifts. Over the phone, she assured them that she loved them, applying many terms of endearment: “Monkey, Sweetness, Moonpie.” It was her daughter, Billie, who'd recently looked up from homework hour at the kitchen table to note in a woebegone way that she and her brothers spent more time with their teachers than with their mother. “Not literally,” Julia said. “Literally,” repeated the youngest boy dreamily, the one with the most words to learn. The Fidelity convention was in Boulder. The conference rooms were climate-controlled, the personnel identically outfitted no matter where they were—Mexican beach, European castle, Alpine ski slope. But here in Colorado everyone seemed smugly healthy, in mind and body, which made Julia crave fast food and cigarettes. She didn't want to step outside because it was too beautiful, the air so painfully clean her eyes watered. This suited Martin, who simply wanted to fuck. And it was simple fucking. Less complicated than sex with Teddy, because Martin didn't care if she had a good time or not. Teddy cared desperately, and would do anything to insure her pleasure, even if it meant sacrificing his own. Teddy had long ago discovered how to make Julia respond; it was an odd kind of power, and Julia faintly resented his possession of it. Martin, however, was a selfish lover, indifferent to her even as they mashed together face to face, chest to chest, toe to toe, and that struck Julia as a strange relief. While he labored away, she let herself daydream. “I'm pregnant,” she said when he'd finished. A bold lie. She supposed she was looking for proof of his character, support for the thesis that he was worth loving, and possibly ruining her life for. But, like the car accident months before, the idea appeared to obsess him only with his own significance. “Shit!” he exclaimed, frown lines crimping his smooth forehead, just under his thick, alarmed-looking hair. “How pregnant?” He didn't ask if the baby was his; his arrogance prevented the question from entering his head. Would her husband have been so obtuse? No. But her husband would have said something worse in his delight, tossing new names into the air—a boy's! a girl's! two of each in case there were twins! “That's what we call a forced-choice question,” Julia said to Martin dryly. “Mexico.” They suddenly wanted out of the hotel room. Blinking like bats, they each took a cellular phone underneath different manicured spruce trees on the hotel grounds and made discreet calls home to check on their families, the new false weight of their relationship sending them running to their other obligations. “Honey?” her husband said carefully, “Honey?” and Julia's heart lurched, all idiocy evaporated. He was going to say something awful. One of her children was dead, injured, lost. Or he'd found out that she was not alone. In his voice, Julia heard her punishment. She'd pushed her luck too far this time. “What?” she said, moving toward and then away from Martin, her free hand fluttering before her as if to erase something—to erase it before it even existed. “What is it?” “We're fine,” Teddy said soothingly, deliberately. “We are one-hundred-per-cent fine, but there was a break-in here at the house.” “A break-in?” “Through Billie's bedroom window. Someone came in while we were gone.” In the tone he used to calm a crying child or a churlish student, Teddy told the story. Someone—someone small—had broken and then crawled through the casement window the night before. Teddy and the children had been at Knott's Berry Farm when it happened. They'd come home to find the doors swinging in a brisk Santa Ana wind and the three floppy-eared, dumb dogs loose in the park across the street. “The fish, however . . .” Teddy sighed. In addition to the dead tetras, they had found a trail of gang insignia spray-painted on the walls, winding from Billie's bedroom to Julia and Teddy's, where the aerosol had apparently run dry. Detours of destruction had been made in every room between: the fridge unloaded, the silverware tray upended, two gas burners left on high, paintings slashed, and the sofa gutted. Billie's bedroom had been thoroughly trashed, drawers dumped, stuffed animals stabbed, nail polish poured on the floor, whiskey on the bed, motor oil on the curtains—as if in preparation for a lit match. Julia was stunned. “Who would do this?” “I don't know. I've been trying to remember if I failed anybody recently, some vengeful student.” He had no enemies, her husband, none that he knew of. Julia's mind spanned the western half of the nation, situating herself the night before—as if providing an alibi—in Colorado, in her hotel room, at the time of the crime. She and Martin, propped up on pillows, eating from a service cart. “Tell me one more time,” she said, pressing her free hand against her other ear as if to fill her mind with what he was describing. Teddy obliged. “Oh, yeah,” he interrupted himself. “This is the really strange thing. On our bed, someone laid out your underwear, arranged like it was on somebody. Panties and a bra and hose. Black,” he added. “I guess they're yours.” He didn't know because he'd never seen her wear them. One of two sets she'd bought when her sex life had drifted beyond that room; the other was on her body right now. Shame flushed through Julia, a wave so powerful she had to sit down on the grass. Her house raided, its closets and cupboards struck with ill will, a vicious bushwhacking tour of mayhem, ending, it seemed, with the flimsy silhouette on her bed. The locks had been changed already, the window covered with plywood. The claim rep had visited, and a cleaning crew was coming in the morning. Teddy told Julia that he had promised their daughter a new comforter and curtains, plush toys and books and CDs and posters. “And white mice,” he added. “Of course,” Julia said vaguely. She could see Martin, under his tree across the lawn, talking seriously but with only half his attention into his cell phone, sucking from his sport bottle of Scotch-and-water, his legs flexed—point, relax, point, relax—in a cyclist's stretch. He was always multitasking. His brain had compartments. She was in one of them. “The dogs are O.K.?” she asked for the second time, her own sport bottle forgotten, leaking on the ground. “Everything is fine,” Teddy repeated. “We're all sleeping in the big bed together.” In the end, Julia felt spared. She was shaking because she was cold, she realized, nothing more. It was November in Colorado, after all. “I love you,” Teddy said. “Tell Mommy we love her,” he called to the children, who echoed the sentiment, a three-voice chorus. Julia withheld the news from Martin. All through the long weekend, she bravely didn't mention it, instead listening to him fret over his daughter's prep-school applications, which required essays and shot records and a cumulative G.P.A. and an astronomical nonrefundable down payment, and, as if that weren't enough, there was his secretary, whom he would have to fire because her multiple sclerosis was finally too debilitating to ignore. Could he really be expected to perform her job as well as his own? He paced, he ranted, he anticipated the fallout. Stewing over these problems was aging him in ways that Julia suspected he welcomed, little worry lines at his temples and mouth, proof of his influence and manhood. Meanwhile, the chronology of the vandalism in L.A. whirled in Julia's head like a shaken snow globe, from breaking glass through eventual departure, those doors swinging in the Santa Ana wind. “December in the city?” Martin said, at the airport, already glancing over Julia's shoulder, on to his next appointment. “December,” Julia confirmed. The annual Christmas party was where they'd met three years before. She said what she always did when they parted: “This might be our last kiss.” And he looked at her, as always, with warmth, knowing that he would not have to extend the benevolence longer than this momentary farewell in a public airport. “Is only a thing,” Julia told Teddy, recalling the Mexican painter as she regarded their belongings. “Well, several things,” her mild husband had responded, standing amid the wreckage. But he wasn't as aware of things as Julia was, and when she returned home she had to revise the list he'd made for the police and State Farm, enumerating the strangely modest items that the thieves had taken, the list oddly long. And odder what they'd left behind: the insignia on the living-room wall bothered Julia, a mysterious metallic-blue symbol, calligraphic and deranged, a snake in a Celtic knot, swallowing its own tail, and yet something less specific than that. How could the vandals be so talented with paint, so artful, and yet still so bent on destruction? Julia found an old can of paint, left over from the last time she and Teddy had done the walls, and, like the Mexican graffiti-coverer, she found herself tracing atop the markings, moving her arm in an approximation of what the intruders had done, following the devious twists with her own brush. But the blue spray paint bled through, the image emerging in creepy shadow fashion, like a bruise surfacing on flesh. Professional painters finally had to come and sand the wall, gouge it, prime it, restore it. It was her neighbor, Linda, who pointed out the other tagging. This was in Julia's sitting porch, where the two women looked out over the sludgy L.A. skyline, drinking wine, before their children came clamoring home from school. The vandals had not done much damage to this room, dull as it was, with rocking chairs and fringed lamps, an absence of electronics and a preponderance of books. Here, the women discussed their love affairs, Linda's former one, Julia's current one—trading off, living vicariously, taking turns. “Look,” Linda said suddenly. The smog had shifted and sunlight beamed briefly into the room, illuminating what had previously been invisible: there in the corner, eye level with a wicker shelf, a set of shining images. An empty can of spray fixa-tive had been found after the break-in. And here was what had become of that transparent aerosol: hidden pictures on Julia's walls. You could see them only in certain kinds of light, at certain angles. These, like the conversations in this room, Julia shared with no one but Linda. The thieves were girls, it turned out, fourteen-year-old gang wanna-bes. Having no vehicle in which to haul their bounty, they'd made off with backpacks—hence the portability of what was missing. They got busted just around the block a few weeks later, crawling out of another casement window with a litter of whimpering Chihuahuas in a soup pot. They confessed to everything, being girls, sobbing and sorry, one of them with a pierced eyebrow, a gold cross winking there. Everything that had been stolen—other than a few children's videotapes and some jewelry—was recovered. Even the puppies came through unscathed. Billie went with Julia to the police station to recover the family's belongings, housed there as evidence. Together, they examined the heavy plastic bags. There were objects there that Julia didn't remember owning, things she might have been nostalgic for if she'd noticed their absence. To the uninterested cop who delivered them, she said, “These are my kids' teeth.” They rattled like pills in an old Fidelity sample bottle. Why would you steal them? Julia wondered. The cop was probably wondering why you would keep them. “And you told us it was the tooth fairy!” Billie said, grinning. Teeth: parts of her children, and yet not, as expendable as the tails of lizards. Her husband had saved his dead brother's glasses, those smudged lenses that had watched poolside as the boy threw himself away. Kept now in a leather snapcase in Teddy's sock drawer. For a second, Julia grew dizzy, the pill bottle clutched in her hand—had she checked at home for the snapcase? “It's just teeth,” Billie said dismissively, already back to the bags, searching for her CDs. Another recovered object was the audiotape Teddy had made of each of the children promising to clean up dog shit if they could please please please get a dog. They'd feed and water and walk and scoop. Oh, please, Daddy, please. Three times he'd done this—not that he'd ever use their words against them. He was easily amused, her husband, charmed by simple pleasures. Such was the way with people who were on track. ” 'Please' is the beg word,” Martin had once told Julia, sniffily. He himself never used it. He hadn't taught his daughter to use it, either, a fact of which he was absurdly proud. “How about 'sorry'?” Julia had asked. On the way home from the police station, she popped Teddy's old tape in the Trooper's cassette deck and heard her children, years before, pleading, making a promise they wouldn't keep to a man who wouldn't hold them to it. “She had her affair,” Martin had told Julia, meaning his wife. It had happened before their daughter was born, and was sufficient excuse, he felt, for his carrying on with Julia. His wife, he claimed, knew about them in some corner of her self. Not the conscious one, of course; he was far too discreet. But, in his opinion, they were finally achieving equilibrium. He felt entitled. A lot of his character was marked by his confidence, his overt sense of self-worth. He was quick and decisive and very handsome—so handsome and fit that Julia often felt frumpy beside him; then she soothed herself with the knowledge that his wife was unquestionably homely. He'd married her for her mind, he'd told Julia piously. The sole photograph Julia possessed of Martin was on page 14 of the 1998 Fidelity newsletter, a legitimate document to have floating around the house. There was something misleadingly breezy in his smile. With his cleft chin, clear eyes, even teeth, he could have been a movie star. Pharmaceutical representation had been only one of many available careers. Elegant, nervous, streamlined Martin, the man to whom Julia could not fully explain her messy left-coast life. Not that he asked her to. He did enjoy hearing what Julia's therapist had determined about their affair, feeling, naturally, superior to diagnosis. With a few drinks in him, he could be enticed into skewering their colleagues at Fidelity Pharm; he possessed such an elastic and mean imagination that he caricatured brilliantly, chillingly. Julia named this trait edginess; her husband did not possess it. With edginess, however, came the edge—over which you might fall. Julia trod lightly. Concerning her husband Martin held vague and charitable views. The dead brother, the psychotic break, the lesser career, the tendency toward beer and television sports and a spare tire. Sentimental slob, he seemed to have decided, poor bastard; the community-college teaching job, in Martin's opinion, was of the “those who can't” variety. Simple logic dictated that Julia would need more, other, opposite. What Martin didn't understand, she thought, was that he wasn't really opposite. He wasn't the same as Teddy, true—and no one but Julia would see the similarity, the fact that he was, like her husband, dedicated to the life he'd made, tight as a tick with his confidence in its value. And attracted, apparently, to someone like Julia. Moreover, if Martin knew Teddy, if he were Teddy's friend, for instance, singing around the piano, playing with his children, then he wouldn't be able to sleep with Julia. Period. That was the kind of men they were. Julia, mistress and wife, alone understood the essential, mutual ignorance. Only after Martin had asked, three separate times over the phone, inflecting each of the simple words differently—”How are you? How are you? How are you?”—did she recall that he still believed her pregnant. In the aftermath of the vandalism, she'd forgotten to miscarry. On the way home from the police station, she and Billie sat, stuck in traffic. In the pile of recovered loot, Billie had found her old key ring. A real ring with real keys that she had collected as a toddler: skeleton keys, old house keys, skate keys, luggage keys, any random key that was no longer of real use. Having a key ring made her feel like one of the big people. She'd gone around unlocking everything, dishwashers and kittens and tangerines. “Some of this stuff isn't mine,” Billie said now, shaking the set. She showed Julia a baby-bottle-shaped eraser token that, on closer investigation, proved to be a small pink penis. And there was a silver key, thick, square, with the instruction not to duplicate it on one side and the number 818 on the other. Eight hundred and eighteen was the number of the hotel room that Julia and Martin had shared in Cancún, in September, back when they could have accidentally made a baby. This couldn't be that key, because that key had been a card—two cards, actually, one for Julia, one for Martin, kept as souvenirs, then discarded with all the other evidence of her love affair. Discarded in case she was killed, discarded in case someone was charged with investigating her life after it was over. In case she had the power to ambush her husband and children from afar, the power held in objects, mute and inscrutable things. “Do you think you could find the lock, if you wanted to?” her daughter asked. “Doubtful,” she said. “I bet I could find it,” Billie said. Julia looked at the girl. At the station, one of the cops had stared at Billie, running his appraising male eyes up and down her slim body before casting a glance in Julia's direction. Julia flashed back to the odd arrangement of underwear on her bed, the seeming import of it, in the topsy-turvy house—a message, if someone cared to receive it. Billie, scrutinizing now the third of the mystery objects on her key ring, a long, old-fashioned brass key with something etched on it, announced her findings: “Sally Cummins. I know her.” It was one of the fourteen-year-old thieves. “You know her?” “I know her.” “How could you know her?” Julia asked. But Billie wasn't going to say. She gazed defiantly into her mother's face. She resembled her father, with only one obvious feature of Julia's, her slightly wide nose. Her nostrils flared now, almost imperceptibly, the breathing flex of will, like a thoroughbred's just before its race. If traffic hadn't shifted at precisely that second—brake lights flashing off, movement, horns—Julia might have been able to get her talking. But the moment passed. Her daughter's secret was safe, Julia thought, and so was hers. She loved a man who was not her husband, a situation against which she was ceaselessly building a case, collecting data that proved her own mistake, only to neglect it, disassemble it willingly again and again. Soon she would have to have an imaginary miscarriage or abortion. Either way, she had to undo what she had done, even if it was only in Martin's mind that she had done it. There was Martin—whose existence often felt invented, as if Julia, like a child, had dreamed up an imaginary friend with whom to share her life, this man she loved who lived strictly separate from the sunshine and shimmering asphalt around her, who had yet to be notified of the nonexistent fate of a nonexistent fetus—and there was her now teen-age daughter beside her, whose former voice promised on tape to clean up after the puppy she dreamed of owning. And there was Martin's unseen daughter and her dooming superiority on the flute, and those girls who'd nonchalantly carried their instruments after playing them at a high-school concert one night when Julia had imagined that she was really pregnant, and then there was the strange girl named Sally who'd crawled into her house, uninvited, to steal and ransack and mark. I know her, Julia would remember her daughter saying, whenever those transparent images left on her sitting-porch walls reappeared, ghostly whisperings—Pssst—in the rare right light for many years to come. They would outlive her children's childhoods. They would outlive her puzzling love for Martin. They were outlines of hearts, strangely enough, something that any girl, good or bad, might idly draw, sloppy valentines to remind Julia of other lies she believed. ♦ Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Travis, B.	Travis, B. The New Yorker, October 28, 2002 P. 94 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a modern cowboy who courts a young teacher and lawyer by bringing a horse to town. Chet Moran grew up in Logan, Montana, at a time when kids weren't supposed to get polio anymore. He had it before he was two, and his right hip never hit in the socket. When he was fourteen, he started riding spoiled and unbroke horses. The rancher left him a truck, and one night he drove the snowy road to town. He drove by the school, slowed, parked on the street. A light was on at a side door and people were going inside. A lady or girl stood at the teacher's desk. She wrote "Adult Ed 302" and her name, Beth Travis on the board. She began to talk about the state and federal law as it applied to the public-school system. At nine o'clock, the people thanked Miss Travis. Chet felt he should explain himself. He learned that she took the class and had no idea the drive to it would be as long as it was... Tuesday, he saddled one of the horses and rode it into town. At the school, he tethered the horse to the bike rack. When class was over, he asked "Can I give you a ride to the cafÈ? ." "Oh, my God," she said. "Don't think about it." He held her briefcase tightly against the pommel and couldn't think of anything except how warm she was, pressed against the base of his spine. Thursday night he drove the truck in. A tall man stood behind the teacher's desk. Chet left and drove nine hours to Missoula. He pulled up at her office just as Beth Travis's Datsun pulled in. . "I came to see you," he said. "I meant to tell you Tuesday, I'd asked for a replacement," she said. "I don't mean any harm," Chet said, and climbed back into the truck and started the engine. She could find him if she wanted. But she wouldn't. That was the thing that made him ache. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Bees, Part 1	The Bees, Part 1 The New Yorker, October 14, 2002 P. 196 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about the writer's father, a Bosnian beekeeper, and his frustrated artistic endeavors. Writer describes a childhood experience in Sarajevo when he went to see a movie with his family & his father made a scene because he disliked the film. In the spring of 1979, his father announced that he was going to make a film about his life that "would not lie." The writer, who was to play a young version of his father in the film, eventually found his father's script, which read: "My Life: 1. I am born; 2. I walk; 3. I watch over cows; 4. I leave home to go to school....10. I marry the pretty girl; 11. I work; 12. I have a son; 13. I'm happy.....25. The End." Describes shooting Scene 4 & how the writer tries to portray his father accurately, but ends up flailing about in an attempt to avoid a bee. Describes his father's hobbies, including woodworking; his father disliked literature immensely, because it was about things that never really happened. . . View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Drummond & Son	Drummond & Son The New Yorker, October 7, 2002 P. 84 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about the owner of a typewriter repair shop and his schizophrenic son. Drummond opened the shop every morning at seven. “Next week’s your birthday,” Drummond said. Shortly after his dad died, Drummond had started bringing Pete to the shop. He guessed that his wife, free of the boy, had discovered she liked living without the burden. Drummond missed his wife tremendously. Drummond told him. “Jesus Christ was brain-dead. Sometimes your illness tells you things, Pete.” The boy didn’t answer. The hour for the appointment with the social worker approached. The woman who walked in the door couldn’t have been much older than Pete. “So, Peter, I’m from Keystone, a halfway house in Fremont.” “Nothing’s been decided,” Drummond assured the boy. “No,” Pete said. “No,” Drummond said. “Stay here and talk to this lady.” The cowbell on the door clapped, and a young mother eased a tandem carriage across the threshold. “What’s your husband do?” Drummond pulled a photo off the wall. “That’s Raymond Chandler,” he said. A gleaming Streamliner rested on his desk. Drummond returned to his son and the social worker. Pete’s lips smacked grotesquely and he stood up. “Is that typical, that kind of talk?” the social worker asked. The boy saw faces disintegrate before his eyes. Drummond taped a sign on the door and locked the shop. “I decided against a halfway house.” “I love Seattle. I ran into John Denver in the street,” Pete said. Drummond let the conversation blow away in the rain. As they were crossing Bell St., the boy knelt down in the intersection. Suddenly he made the sign of the cross, rose, and resumed walking. “Your birthday’s Monday. Any idea what you’d like?” His wife would probably call home on Pete’s birthday. They had eloped during his senior year. She had never had a real honeymoon or even a real life. “Monday, I’ll take the day off. We’ll do something, just you and me. You’ll be twenty-five years old.” View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Bodies	Bodies The New Yorker, September 30, 2002 P. 112 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about Annie, who is in treatment for Hodgkin’s lymphoma, and lives with her employer-Cleo, a driven woman executive at an advertising agency-and takes care of the woman’s son... She was formerly employed at the agency herself, and admires Cleo’s drive and energy... Tells about her love for the child, Anthony, and a failed pass she makes at Cleo’s wealthy husband, Jay... The next day, she walks in on a scene between Jay and Cleo’s sixteen-year-old niece; Cleo theatrically threatens suicide, then stalks out of Cleo’s penthouse, then Anthony returns home with a drawing for Annie... View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
The Obscure Object	The Obscure Object The New Yorker, July 29, 2002 P. 66 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about the narrator’s crush on her friend, the Object. The narrator, Calliope, realizes, throughout the course of the story, that she is a hermaphrodite. When the Object, a freckly, red-head, transfers to her school, Calliope’s own desire alarms her. She can’t speak when the Object one day asks to shares her book, she spends nights at home in her bathroom just thinking about her love. As school ends, the two girls become friends; they spend long days at the pool together. Calliope is mesmerized by the darkening of the Object’s freckles, the ease with which she throws her hair back, the way her body fits into her bikini? At the end of the summer, the Object invites Calliope to spend time with her at her summer house. The Object’s brother, Jerome, displays an obvious interest in Calliope, while a handsome neighbor, Rex, shows interest in the Object. The foursome go out one night, pitch a tent in the woods and smoke and drink together. Soon Rex and the Object are kissing, and, as a form of revenge, Calliope allows Jerome to kiss her. As Jerome touches her, Calliope remains completely still. She realizes that here is the fine red hair and freckles she’d spent so much time admiring, but they are on the wrong head. Calliope keeps a constant eye on the other make-out session. She allows herself to slip into the body of Rex, so that she is the one kissing the Object. She realizes suddenly, though, that while she was off inhabiting Rex’s body, Jerome has pulled off her overalls. Before she can wake up from her drunkenness, Jerome tugs down her underpants and comes inside her. Calliope gasps. For the first time she clearly understands that she isn’t a girl but something in between. She knows this from how natural it had felt to enter Rex’s body, how right it felt. Jerome doesn’t notice. He pulls out, lies down and smiles with the smile of a boy, who, on a summer night, has gone all the way? The next day, the Object is furious with Calliope for acting like a slut, and having sex with her brother. The Object goes out and spends the day with Rex, and Calliope spends the day alone. Late in the morning, Calliope goes back to her room to lie down and Jerome shows up. He begins to make out with her, and, after going through the motions for a bit, she tells him to stop, that she doesn’t like him like that. Jerome, insulted, walks out of the room quickly Not until late that night does the Object return to the house. She slips into the bed she shares with Calliope, and within minutes, falls asleep. Calliope waits ten minutes or so, and then, as though tossing in her sleep, rolls over so that she can watch the Object. Gently, she pulls the covers off her. The Object doesn’t stir. Her chest rises and falls with her breath. Slowly, trying not to make a sound, Calliope moves closer. She lifts up her shirt and gazes at the Object’s naked belly and, finally, with a kind of woefulness, bows her head and kisses it. Calliope then hooks her fingers in the waistband of the Object’s underpants and begins to slip them off. Just then, the Object lifts her hips, very slightly, to make it easier for her. This is her only contribution The next day, the two don’t mention what happened. Later, though, sitting on the porch swing drinking lemonade, the two begin making out again. After a while, they hear a creak on the porch behind them and find Jerome is gazing down on them on the Object’s bare legs lying in Calliope’s lap. “You’re lucky I’m such a liberal and freethinking type of guy, he says. “Most guys wouldn’t be so happy to find out that they’d been two-timed by a lesbian with their own sister. It’s sort of embarrassing, don’t you think?” Calliope jumps up and hits Jerome in the face. Jerome falls and Calliope climbs on top of him to hit him again. With a roar though Jerome rises up, and sends Calliope backward. Calliope runs off the porch and across the lawn, Jerome chasing behind her. As she looks back to check on Jerome, she hits a tractor dead on. She is spun into the air and knocked out cold When Calliope awakes later, it is in the back seat of an unknown automobile. She turns her head and looks up and sees a beautiful sight. She sees the Object’s face from below. Her head is in her lap, her right cheek is flush against her stomach. The Object begins sobbing when she realizes that Calliope is alive. She presses her wet face against Calliope’s and, for the first and last time, they kiss. The Object stays behind as the doctor takes Calliope into his room. Calliope reaches into the air for her friend as she is carried away. The doctors check Calliope’s body. They take off her underpants. The doctor bends closer, mumbling to himself. The intern, rather unprofessionally, raises one hand to her throat and then pretends to fix her collar. Calliope thinks to herself that Chekhov is right. If there’s a gun on the wall, it’s got to go off. In real life, however, you never know where the gun is hanging. In the emergency room, there was no smoke, no gunpowder smell, absolutely no sound at all. Only the way the doctor and nurse reacted made it clear that her body had finally lived up to the narrative requirements. View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet
Fun with Problems	Fun with Problems The New Yorker, July 15, 2002 P. 68 This article is available to subscribers only, in our archive viewer. Get immediate access to this article for just $1 a week by subscribing now. Short story about a divorced, lonely attorney’s brief relationship with a therapist he meets at the jail. The attorney, Peter Mathews, drives down to Hampton County Jail to visit his client, a young burglar named Georgie. As Mathews steps into Georgie’s cell, Georgie begs him to protect him from another inmate, Brand, who has threatened to break his fingers. Brand is sitting in the cell with a tall, attractive woman who is talking to him and using tarot cards. Mathews speaks with his client briefly, and then leaves, promising to move him to a cell farther away from Brand. As Mathews walks out through the jail chapel, he feels depressed and craves a drink. He says hi to a nun, Sister Sophia, and then notices the pretty therapist from Brand’s cell. Sister Sophia begins nagging the therapist for playing "cosmic Monopoly," for practicing "diabolical superstition." The therapist argues with Sister Sophia. "It’s a therapeutic device. It relaxes them." Mathews follows the therapist outside and asks her to go out for a drink with him. The therapist, Amy, says no several times, but then finally agrees. Inside the pub, Amy tells Mathews she doesn’t drink, but then, finally, at his insistence, downs several Margaritas. In her drunkenness, she reveals that she is a failing actress and that she doesn’t like to drink because it interferes with remembering her lines. Later, at Amy’s house, they lounge on the sofas and drink scotch, tequila and margaritas. Amy tells Mathews a story about herself, bashfully calling the drug and alcohol rehab she went to a spa, though Mathews, having been to enough rehabilitation programs himself, sees right through her lie. She describes how at "the spa," a clairvoyant correctly revealed to her that there were two men in her life: a mediocre husband, and a mediocre lover. A couple months later, Amy’s husband discovered the recording of her session with the clairvoyant, and he divorced her. Mathews listens to the story and gets the impulse to kiss her and hold her. Instead, he draws his hand back and whacks her. The hit stuns her, but she doesn’t turn in anger. She says quietly, "I guess I deserved that." "I guess you did," Mathews said. His voice is cold and stern. He takes her by the hand and leads her to her bedroom?In the morning, when Mathews comes back from the bathroom, Amy is quietly crying. He had forced her to drink. Why had he done it, she wants to know. Mathews dresses in silence. He wants to reach out to her, to apologize. Instead, he walks out of her house.Mathews writes his brief the next day and then stops by for happy hour at a Chinese restaurant in a strip mall. He doesn’t call her that day or the next. A couple weeks later, he attends a performance of "Cymbeline" at the Community Theatre in which Amy is starring. As Imogen, though, Amy looks tired and blowzy beneath her makeup. She does apparently forget her lines at several points. Mathews feels ashamed of what happened, and has to keep reminding himself that she probably can’t see him in the darkness. In a better world, he thinks, he might have been her friend. They might have found themselves together in a rehab and had some fun’He does see Amy once again before the winter is over. He sees her in a small bar in the company of a man somewhat older than herself. Amy doesn’t hold anything against Mathews. Mathews wishes him well. Seeing her again "provides him a rush from a pump, a hit from the daily grip of regret and loss. " He makes a toast to her. He touches her glass merrily and says, "Break a leg, Amy." View Article Sign up for the daily newsletter.Sign up for the daily newsletter: the best of The New Yorker every day. E-mail address GO SIGN UP Share Tweet


