June and Charlie met on a summer day.  It was so hot the grass was laying down yellow in exhaustion and the air was so heavy it was hard to breath.  June and Charlie knew it was a day they would remember.  They would tell their children that the day they met the air was sucked out of their lungs and they knew.  They just knew.

They got married on a wide green lawn and I was sitting in the first row.  The air was dry that day and it was cold.  My hair was floating out from my head as though a magnet were pulling the ends away me.  I smoothed it down as they kissed and the audience applauded.  My hands were dry and I tried.  I tried, but it was hopeless.  My hair stuck out and I wanted to cry that it wouldn't lay down for me.

The weather shifted and shifted until it was another summer day.  The air was so heavy it was hard to breath.  Charlie was golfing.  That's what June told me.  But the storm was so unexpected, there was no reason to believe it would come.  When the lightning struck, it stopped his heart.  His hair was burned to the scalp, his skin tattooed with fractals as his capillaries burst.  That was more than I wanted to know.

I sat in the first row at the funeral.  June was my best friend.  The ground was soft because it had been raining.  My heels sucked into the mud, not wanting to let go.

"I'm so sorry," I said.  "Maybe you and Charlie were too lucky.  Maybe love is only meant to be short."  I said those things but I didn't know what I believed.

She shook her head and I placed a hand on her arm.

The ground was soft but he wasn't buried.  June gave us each a small box of stone, hollow in the center, his ashes heavy and weightless in our hands.

I put my box on the bookcase.  It was cool, always cool, even when my skin was sweaty and hot.  Ethan and I tried.  I thought we did.  Ethan from the funeral, from the wedding, too, though I hadn’t noticed him then.  He came by almost every day, then not at all.  It was confusing and sad.  I went to work and came home, went to work and came home, touched the box with my fingertips.

We met for coffee and June was late.  She arrived in a whirlwind of autumn leaves and red wool.

"I can't tell anyone else," she said.  "But I didn't love Charlie.  Not after we married."

"But the summer day," I said.  "You knew.  You knew."

"It was the weather, I think."

"No."  I didn't mean for the word to come out.  My throat was dry.  I tried to cough, but the air was sucked out of my lungs.

"I don't know."  She sipped from her cup.  "I'm too romantic.  In love with love.  In love with something else maybe."  She shrugged.  "Who knows?  Am I a terrible person?"

"No," I said.

But I didn't say it.  The word got caught in my throat.  I could feel the weight of the stone box in my hand.  I clenched my fist.

June got married again on a beach in Bermuda.  The groom had a condo there, I heard.  I wasn't invited.  All I had was the stone box on my bookshelf.  Maybe Charlie was lucky, I thought.  Maybe I was lucky to be alone with the box.  To be alone.  But I couldn't convince myself.

The snow was piling up and it was cold, getting colder.  I emailed June.  I texted her.  Finally I saw her at a restaurant and waited until she was leaving.

"I'm sorry," I said.  "I didn't know."  She turned to leave.  "I don't know how love can die so easily.  Can it really?"

She put a hand on my arm.  Her mouth opened and I thought she would say, "Yes."  Or maybe "No."  It didn't matter which one.

"Is it so fragile?" I said as she shook her head and left.

But I knew it couldn't be.  I know it can't be.  The stone box sits on my bookshelf and is always cool.  It's heavy and light at the same time.  When I hold it, I feel hopeful.







